three two one boom alive what's up ray
how are you buddy
pretty good great to see you man it's
been a while it's been ten years no more
than that really 2007 I moved out of LA
Wow
damn that's weird and talked about you
in the podcast several times though you
know what I never listened to the
podcast until recently someone told in
the second time you said so I think
three times you mentioned me
probably yoga ray yoga right all these
kids are contacting me they mentioned
right y'all go right on the show yeah it
was cool I appreciate it I appreciate
you I appreciate ya and I always thought
truthfully I always thought Joe Rogan's
gonna do something good I honestly I can
tell you that and it may be embarrassing
to say but and what I'm proud of you oh
thank you don't mind me saying that of
all you've done thank you that's very
nice that's a funny thing to say though
and you've had great just Joe Rogan time
you had done some great stuff
first of all stand-up comedian that's
that's a great gig it's fun gig it's a
great gig and if I could pick a second
thing besides stand-up comedian it'd be
the announcer I wouldn't want to be in
the UFC even if I was good because you
get pounded on it's a tough job right
yeah that's why you know I went to
Thailand see those kids fight they're
retired at 21 yeah did you beat up keep
it up the trade announcer of the UFC and
you're also skilled at the stuff most
people think the announcers aren't so
skilled sometimes you're very skilled I
just remember rolling around with you
yeah
those were some of the greatest memories
of my time in LA is when Eddie opened
ten planet yeah we had a lot of fun man
I mean it was such a special interesting
time of Jiu Jitsu I think that it was
going to no noogie there's a demographic
of jujitsu guys who didn't want to wear
a gay anymore
yeah what was a lot of people wanted to
learn things that would transition
directly into MMA and to not have the
clothes to grab on to it changed the
grips and Eddie was one of the very
first to really truly concentrate on
using wrestling grips gable grips over
unders things along those lines
and then the other people were still
really clinging to the gay he was like a
and I think the thing that I was
attracted to about the Ultimate Fighting
when I first saw I think the first one I
saw was - you know you have C - and I
was like oh man this is and you watch
those Gracie in action videos and like
yeah this is real stuff real stuff yeah
and so I started even noticing in my
game I just played open guard and I was
lackadaisical and I'd always have to
tell the guys hey do me a favor just try
to slap me because this is getting a
little unreal I don't want to I want a
real life situation right and I'm
figuring okay I don't want to get but I
don't want to get caught up in the
guinot geetha right now but I always
felt like you know real practical
fighting I'm the guy may not be wearing
a tuxedo I think both are good because
like you live in New York New York gets
cold if you get into a scuffle with
someone I hope you never would do but if
you did and he was wearing a jacket like
yours you could manipulate him with that
jacket and they really probably wouldn't
know what to do yeah you know this is a
real benefit like being a judo player if
someone has a winter coat on yeah like
if you had a fight with Karo Parisyan or
Ronda Rousey or someone like that and
they they're wearing a winter coat
they'll fuck you up you know they just
grab that thing yeah okay yes all right
well I'm glad I learned that way yeah
it's good way to learn it's good it's
good for defense too because the guy
keeps you from just yanking out of stuff
and exploding out of things you have to
be very patient you have to be if to use
correct technique anyway it was
appreciation and it was one of my
biggest lamentations of moving away was
not to be around that whole Posse and
then I never expected it to get as big
as it did I know so believable because
back then it was like the seed I used to
bring my my big kids who were big now I
used to bring them and they used to just
box we used to do it at UH legends known
before legend oh bomb squad that the
bomb squad wow that's crazy that's old
school
yeah that's 2000 what - somewhere else
yeah it was cool it was a great time I
just got my purple was super excited and
then Eddie just got his black you guys
Brown is black super quick yeah where
that got his brown and then he beat
Hoyle er and then he got his black yeah
I was there that day
and that was crazy when John Jacques
took it off his back
unbelievable that was heavy
yeah it was a good place to be a good
time it was it's like when you look back
at those times it's in it was an
interesting era it was an interesting
error for us as humans it was an
interesting era for martial arts there's
a lot going on and that 10th planet was
really a hub of exciting innovation and
still is but it mean back then it was
this really unique thing this this
completely nogi branch of jiu-jitsu
that's directly connected to John
Jacques Machado which is a totally re
conservative legit mmm judge Aquos is
you know I was always impressed with him
- he still roles man he's a my age and
he doesn't get injured like he might
have like a little tweak here and there
but he's so intelligent and he's so
technical and he's just so good that was
I'm saying was only because I'm not
there anymore but when I was going there
I was like this is such an amazing place
Jean Jacques Academy the quality of
fighters you would get there yeah I mean
that was also at a time where there was
no jiu-jitsu in America I mean was you
have to travel yeah ginger squirrel get
the fuck you have to be into it and go
somewhere and to have that many black
belts at a school mm-hmm that was like
unheard of in his class one day and
there was like eleven black belts I was
like this is crazy and it wasn't like
that
no there's a random rogue black belt
somewhere and say you know somewhere in
Portland or something like that you had
to find him it was a lot of purple belts
teaching schools and blue belts teaching
schools in some places even that was a
great time to get in jujitsu oh yeah
like I went I started with hens Oh in
New York yeah I went there the day that
Matt Serra got his purple belt wow
that's crazy it's not crazy it was it
was it was such a cool interesting time
would you Jitsu that place is still the
top place in the world it's pretty
impressive and it was such a great guy -
he's the best
he's so nice week I gave him a CD of my
band just as a gift I just met him
and he gave me a krugen ghee Wow yeah
that's legit whoo super legit questions
was the the ghee but that was the ghee
yeah if you had a krugen you know it was
a fair trade I wasn't a trade I just
wanted to give him a gift and he just
like without thinking just threw the
back at me he had a great attitude well
he still does he's so loved that guy
said I mean that's one of the really
nice things about jiu-jitsu is the
camaraderie and the friendship it's like
it's very different than I was it's
compared to other martial arts in that
the problem with striking martial arts
is that you hurt each other all the time
you never developed a sort of closeness
that you do with jiu-jitsu because
you're always trying to kick each
other's fucking heads off well you know
I did a stung a yoga for years where
it's sort of silent and you're just
doing a set series of poses mm-hmm I
could be with people like every day for
a year and practically never speak to
them right I remember meeting a guy at
the DMV I was like I know you you're
right next to me every morning for two
hours but you've never spoken worth
jiu-jitsu you become best friends with
the guy you walk out with like 20 new
friends you know each other so well to
look you know when someone's breaking
you know when someone's exhausted you
know when someone's getting better you
know has really been consistent you know
and you roll with someone they're super
sharp you like what you've been doing
well what are you going four days a week
now you see it yeah they become like
your best friend yeah well it's also
like we appreciate when someone's really
good like if you roll with some of them
they're really good and they start
getting you and they didn't used to get
you before you like a pretty league you
get excited I got a ramp up my game cuz
he's doing something doing room do we
have a different metric with all these
yeah well I remember you being one of
the first guys that I knew that got into
yoga and yoga is a huge part of
jiu-jitsu now so many people that
trained in jiu-jitsu I think I'm JIT by
the way I'm Jiu Jitsu illiterate now I
still know what did you see when you
stopped will your brown belt
I was purple I was purple because I
didn't I stopped going to John Jost
classes and we just wanted to and I
think it's sort of before Eddie started
giving out actually maybe he did he get
who's giving out no but I just wasn't it
was confusing it was confusing because I
was sort of with John Jacques right but
I
I wanted to do the noogie stuff yeah and
Eddie had this natural flex has this
natural flexibility that I related to
and he's my size and I related to that
and I'm not like I was never super
athlete in high school or anything like
that I was short but I was flex I was
reasonably flexible in yoga got me
really flexible and so i apprec--
okay he has a really great close guard
game I want to learn that from him and I
really sort of like honed in on what he
could give yeah
and so yeah I never like approached him
hey can I'm a belt mmm do you ever who's
a vulnerable weird time my life but you
know did you ever feel the desire to do
it again yeah I do every now and then I
go back but yeah when I train because I
trained with you guys and trained with
jean-jacques it's hard to go to
something it's hard to do it now he's
twenty years later all the stuff I just
and I just did some Jiu Jitsu the other
day was at some school and someone got
mad at me for i I guess it's illegal the
some of the stuff I did what did you do
um I did a bicep scissors that's not
illegal it's not legal someone know
someone could play then I sat on
someone's chest I do a mount where I put
the feet forward I don't remember how
you said mmm with that yeah and I'll
crank their neck yeah not to tap them
but just to have them react and give me
an arm or something so I my feet are
forward I'm sitting on their mount I
pull their head up and they panic or
something and throw an arm up right and
then I'll take a triangle right arm bar
so I did that to someone until you can't
neck crank listen I didn't know you're
going I didn't know that's not a good
school it's that's those are legit
techniques neck cranks are legit right
you know I just went to bed you
illiterate yeah but no I don't think so
and then here's a deal I don't want to I
don't learn this stuff to win points
right you know I want to learn now I
want to learn you know that's how I know
this other guy was on your show James
James wells yes great guy ultimate
fighter great guy yeah no I knew him cuz
I used to do some knife fighting with
him oh yeah he's a tactical instructor
yeah he's real he's super rounded guys
yeah very rounded yeah I knew him right
when he just started jujitsu you see he
did a debate with I saw the guy I saw
out opposed
commander this is very interesting
because that debate really should be
like 15 hours long
we only got into some points that the
other guy fucked up and got incorrect
and you get in the weeds with nutrition
stuff you know because he was a part of
that game changer documentary yeah yeah
you know I heard that documentary was
good i sat down with my kids to watch it
it's interesting it's like there's a lot
of it that's not legit and then there's
a lot of it is like you can eat only
plants you can you can be healthy eating
only plants but you have to do it right
and it's not easy and it's different for
everybody and some people it does not
agree with their body it's not the
optimum way for them to eat for some
people when they get off of it and just
start eating like more paleo or they
start eating grass-fed meat it feels so
much better like I just don't know if
there is a perfect oh no I do know
there's not a perfect diet for any like
for every single human being on this
planet it's not like one diet that you
could lock in and if you ate that way
you'd be fine everybody's different
people have all these weird autoimmune
disorders and shit and a lot of them are
triggered by certain carbohydrates and
plants and and when you eliminate those
things from your diet you find all these
skin problems clear up and when I try to
figure out what's that all about and
there's all these people to think that
maybe it's there's certain toxins like
oxalates and polyphenols and stuff that
exists in plants that might trigger your
your gut sensitivity or autoimmune
issues in the gut this it's so in the
weeds man
it's like infusing you can go on and on
and on debate about details
mhm and everyone has a point yeah they
all have a point the the vegan people
have a point when it comes to ethics
when it comes to animal rights when it
comes to like cruelty and factory
farming they have a point and then the
health conscious people the people that
are like you know I don't give a fuck
about that I'm just I'm just trying to
be healthy and I heard up all my my my
diseases by just eating grass-fed meat
and I'm just gonna buy it from you know
ethical ranchers they have a point to
right well last appreciation for joe
rogan okay really for it for what is I
was appreciating your independent
thinking it takes a lot because it's
really easy just to opt into one side
mmm and sin dig your heels
it's bad for you though it's bad for you
it's bad it stops you from actually free
thinking and that's a problem with
anything you get it to be so politics
yes or be it a religion or spirituality
or be it
ethics and diet in everything everything
the way behavior I think people have to
realize that you are not your thoughts
yeah you are not your thoughts you're
you're a person and you you accept
thoughts and sometimes become attached
to them but though it's not good to do
sometimes you should re-examine those
thoughts and don't don't hold on to them
as if they're a part of you people argue
points they'll argue subjects and topics
as if they're arguing they're very value
as a person
they're very value to exists and it's
crazy it's not a good way to think if
someone tells me I'm wrong
everyone's instinct when someone tells
you wrong it's like no you're wrong for
you you're getting to this right petty
world but my my disciplined reaction
when I'm doing it correctly is to go hmm
okay how am I wrong what did I do wrong
and just do don't take it personally
just these are not this is not I mean if
you've made a mistake that's just a
mistake people you're not a perfect
person no one is everyone makes mistakes
so if you make a mistake about a fact or
a subject err just pause just pause and
take it go okay what what is running in
is this person correct are you wrong or
are they incorrect and you know can you
can you correct them without getting
personal about it too can you that's
another thing like can you tell someone
that they're wrong or that you believe
they're wrong without it getting weird
you know that's that's hard to do as
well because then that other person is
gonna be very attached to what they've
said I mean people dig their heels in
it's yeah these are all these are all
points I'm working on in you know my
book I'm working on which is sort of
extracting all these teachings of
ancient yoga but not not getting lost in
just philosophical thought not getting
lost in how to make it relevant and
practical but it's exactly what you're
saying
yeah it's hard for people it's hard
independent thinking is it's difficult
nowadays because it it see it's not the
easy way out right it's either easy to
have
clothes picked out for you and her
ideology picked out for how you're
supposed to look and where he's posted
and if I'm a Democrat I'm supposed to be
like this and not like this
do you remember bud bud Brett's Minh he
was one of the guys I trained with us at
John jocks he was older guy younger guy
he's my age at the time you know he was
in his 30 but only wears black he's been
on this podcast before he's a good
friend of mine he lives down the street
from me he only wears black okay he
wears black shirts who wears black pants
I go why remember him I go why do you
only wear black and he goes I don't have
to think about this way it is good it's
a nice way to think he grew in his
closet like oh my god it's a crazy
person it's like all black t-shirts all
black jeans like what the fuck he
wearing but he never thinks he just puts
his pants on like that's one less thing
I have to think about I was like all
right that's his thing everything's
black easy yeah it was black sneakers
check black pants check black socks
all right that's his thing and he
doesn't it doesn't have to spend time
thinking about his image like it's just
this he said what's a burden yeah that
was the one thing I really was relieved
for me as a monk I was a monk yeah yeah
you know my bio worm I do know I know
jiu-jitsu I don't I don't even know how
you called me up truthfully it was a
weird situation I was traveling with a
bunch of student I'm a yoga teacher by
the way my name is rockin off ray well
how did how did you get that name so
rocky Knauth was oh my name's since
about 91 a teacher in India gave it to
me oh and does that work how'd that work
it works where you you approach teachers
that you that resonate with you that
sort of speak to you the universe sends
you people that speak to you I mean I'm
sure you found that in your own life
there's certain people that explain
something better than anybody and it
might be at different times in your life
and then the teacher feels you're ready
and they want to like sort of like give
you a mantra they give you a mantra and
the mantras mantra sound and the sound
is very powerful because sound affects
the way we think they say as far as
transformation in yoga like we do if
something very physical and it starts to
transform the body you're into yoga now
from what I know of you know we both I
guess when Reese
touching each other but so then you have
an appreciation for yoga cuz it
radically starts to change your body and
then starts to sort of slow down the
pace of your thoughts and your mind and
your in doing helps with your endurance
in your cardio and all that stuff so the
grossest way to change is the change of
the body and the breathing start to also
change your cardiovascular system your
endurance and then of course the sounds
that we hear they say are the most
transformational and it's almost hard to
believe especially coming from the West
because in the West we're thinking you
know sounds how's that gonna make me
healthy but it's all about sound that
creates a healthy mind a calm mind a
connected mind the mind can the idea
behind yoga is it can go to a dark place
the mind can go to a very dark place
very quick and those thoughts you were
just as we're not our thoughts but our
thoughts can get us into trouble and
give us some jail and get us divorced
they could cuz they can the thoughts
create an action and so we might have an
external cleanliness but if we don't
have that internal cleanliness it's
you're not actually healthy so there's a
different metric of what health is in
the yoga system and we've always taken
it in the Western world to be well we're
gonna you know health means fitness you
know and so we're gonna become fit but
you could be fit and be angry you could
be fit and be resentful you could be fit
and be unforgiving and so then the next
question is what is actual health in
where is where what is full-spectrum
health look like right and that's sort
of what I love what yoga addresses and I
feel like what we are doing therein and
these great martial arts teachers that
we've had teach us is how to be sort of
almost like you're fighting this fight
mm-hmm but there's no rage you're not
actually even angry at the person it's
actually just you're just doing what
you're supposed to do right now can I be
completely relaxed and do this under
stress under guys try it's guys trying
to choke the life out of you yeah
literally yeah I had that I had
I had a I had a fight back then I don't
like to fight I'm not like I don't look
at myself as a fighter I looked at
myself more as a meditator I got in a
fight right at that time probably when I
saw you last what happened a guy it was
in Santa Monica guy just stole my car oh
wow
it was my first date with my wife is our
first day we've married 16 years
a guy stole my car and how did you catch
him well we are walking up the street
and she said oh you left your lights on
in your car and I said now I have a I
have a Saab you need the keys to turn on
the to get the lights on so I can't be
my car but my top was down was a
convertible Saab and the top was down
and I was like man that is my car had my
lights on and then I realized there is
this dude in my car trying to start my
car and my wife left her keys in the
glove compartment and I guess he opened
the glove compartment went into a
convertible which was open I had no long
was what was old Saab 900s I used to
have and you put the keys in and he just
couldn't start cuz it wasn't the right
keys so I don't I don't know if it was
because of yoga or jiu-jitsu or whatever
it was but I was so calm about it I just
said hold my sweatshirt and I was super
skinny then I was like I don't know if
you remember my diet was I was a hundred
percent raw foodist vegan like you know
a buck 47 soaking wet with the crystal
in my pocket you know and I just said in
a very calm way I just said hold my
jacket and I ran I jumped on the back of
the trunk I jumped over and jumped on
his head and then I and I'm small so I
Drive real close to the steering wheel
and I slipped behind him and tried to
choke him but I couldn't get deep enough
behind him to get the choke in and it
was this big dude I couldn't really tell
from when I jumped it was a big dude I
just said and he said you trying to
choke me I'm gonna kill you but it was
such a stall mate because he couldn't
move I couldn't get the choke in deep
enough and it was just a stomach and it
went on for like three minutes just
there whoa but I was just breathing
and then it went back to grab my face
and you do that thing in jiu-jitsu we
hook the guy's arm with your leg so he
had that I had that arm trap he couldn't
move I couldn't move my wife was looking
at me she's not calling the cops she's
just like looking they're shocked this
is your first minute it's our first date
it's midnight in Santa Monica right down
elections right you know by the coffee
bean or something yeah and finally we
stand up in the seat we're standing the
press and my windows are up at the top
is down I cup his neck and I punched him
twice and he grabs me by the shirt he I
grabbed him by the shirt and we throw
each other through the windows oh gee
and they snap and shatter we fall out of
the car over the door and roll in the
street and I put him in my guard and
then he just at that point I think he
just turned and ran and I pulled his
shirt off check this out
I had his shoes his because his shoes
fell off they were sort of like untied
adidas his shoes fell off his pants
dropped his ankles cuz they were low
sagging pants his baseball hat fell off
and he pulled this and I had a shirt and
he ran away and we're both covered in
blood cuz there's glass all over us and
he runs away in his underwear pulling up
his pants in his socks and that's the
story my wife looks and I like what you
call the cops she's like I don't know
that was sorry look is the coolest thing
I've ever seen I was like I was the
coolest thing I've ever think I've ever
done she's like he could've had a gun I
was like I know I he could have actually
killed me I've never you know I don't
know how I would react again if that
ever happened but that's just what
happened I think it's because it was
sort of like in that mood of this is my
duty I have to protect my car right and
also the other thing is you are used to
like pretty intense conflict when you
joined you just all the time and then
you don't we do MMA yeah we yeah and
that was all this yeah yeah and all
those guys had jean-jacques sorry are
the cops mm-hmm I'd call them cops or
robbers they were seized like one of
them well the thing about jujitsu is you
do it full blast right you don't you
don't break arms or actually choke
people unconscious if they tap you
go but you're that trust moment yeah
you're going as hard as you can
that's the difference you're so
accustomed to that so when you're
rolling with this guy also people that
aren't accustomed to that they they feel
vulnerable panic when is guy gonna do
feel it right away they feel awkward
they feel strange yeah like I've rolled
the people that don't know how to roll
just joking around
rolling with people like come on let me
do jujitsu with you let me see what it
feels like they're helpless they're
helpless helpless it's a weird feeling
that's like what you look like a normal
you look like my size you know you look
like Lee and I should be but you're
you're vulnerable you're so vulnerable
right it's just like it's such a big
learning curve is so sharp it's so sharp
it's so sharp but once you get to like
Bluebell purple belt it's like that area
like a regular person has really
helpless they really are you know it's
you know it's interesting even with that
fight I don't look at myself as a
fighting guy or and I definitely don't
look for fights but it's almost like
you're learning a game you know and then
you realize oh this game is completely
deadly yeah it is a deadly game it's
exactly what it is you're playing a game
I'm trying to kill you you're trying to
kill me but we're really good friends
that's the crazy thing it's like a lot
of guys who have technically killed me
you know because I have a tab they're my
they're basically good friendly my best
friend yeah they're really nice you know
and I can't wait to try to kill them
again like it's a very strange thing to
practice but it's very cleansing like
the pieces that do it all it's a therapy
yeah they're so peaceful yeah I don't
know if any other I don't really study
Marsh other martial arts except a little
more Thai in Thailand but um but I
wonder if it's you get the same cards
you don't have to pull yeah you'll have
to you know either go light or you I
mean in Thailand if it's like I went to
kick a guy and he blocked it with his
shin you know it lifted his knee and I
got a bruise from my ankle to my knee
that was like yeah it's brutal its
brutal spirit yeah I might have to
condition the shit out of your shins it
takes years to yeah that it's just a
different sort of camaraderie this real
camaraderie was striking but again it
feels weird because you do hurt each
other so you don't have that same sort
of
on that you have in jiu-jitsu also this
is a thing in jiu-jitsu is body contact
like body contact is different you know
it's like you're oh you're like like
people who don't have good friends they
they ever hug yeah right there's a lot
of men who don't want to be touched by
another man like yes I don't know why
I'm not I'm not giving a reason why but
if you go hey what's up and you go and
hug them or just shake them they like
they're just grossed out yeah touching
of another man yeah you got to get over
that quick yeah I mean how many times
have I talked about jujitsu with people
and the people that don't do it so you
roll around with other guys isn't that
kind of gay I think people say that all
there wasn't that video out there at one
time jujitsu that's the gayest sport
around remember that it was from some TV
show oh yeah they're like I'm gonna
learn Brazilian Jiu Jitsu yeah yeah well
I mean look at some of the positions
like being the guard or being on
someone's back whatever so you were the
first guy that I knew that was really
into yoga back then I knew Hicks and
like when that documentary choked yeah
it was great doc that was a great
documentary it showed how much jujitsu
and yoga together made Hickson this
really incredible force it was the yoga
had affected his mind in this great way
cuz he was able to meditate and he would
do all these incredible yoga poses he
was so flexible and he had such
dexterity of his arms and legs I mean a
lot of people got excited about yoga
because of Hickson but you were the
first guy that I knew that really went
so deep into it you actually became an
instructor because when I first knew you
I knew that you were in a band and that
you you did yoga then a little bit
because everybody called you yoga Rey
but it's like I felt like you were on
this path and this this yoga pack could
tell and then pain essentially on social
media and following you that's like well
he's really into this shit I remember
when you were moving to New York we had
talked online and you were going out
there to teach jujitsu or excuse me yoga
and I was like I don't even think he
does jujitsu anymore I think he's just
all doing yoga now and that's what
happened right you know I did music for
most of my life with the youth of today
you thought today was the band before
I became a monk and then I and at the
height of that career this was a New
York City
hardcore straight edge band we didn't
drink we didn't smoke and we you know
we're all strict vegetarians
oh that's me yeah the more relaxed form
so that's what I did as and and the idea
of the band were teenagers we're all
teenagers me and my bed buddy parm
Ananda who also later moved into an
ashram so we started this when we were
in 1617 and there's a cool scene making
our own music and stuff like that but
when we got youth of today together it
was about sort of a message of better
living positive mental attitude these
spiritual principles like karma and what
goes around comes around and respect
dignity controlling your senses in your
mind and what what led you to that no
really no I've always been interested in
my idea of a good time was this was like
80s in New York City was you find these
like eesti West ebook stores that have
books on yoga and metaphysics and
reincarnation and just plop it down and
read books all afternoon by Swami's and
sadhus and weirdos and palm readers and
stuff like that that's my idea of what a
good time was and I always felt like
life is meant for our self edification
that's why we're here we're here on a
mission of growth and when I and when I
read books by sages or mystics and
things like that I was always like I
want to be like that that's what I want
to be that's bigger than anything out
there that I want to be so truthfully
the band I never really want I'm not a
musician I play a little bit of
everything I wrote all the songs but I
always looked at myself as more like a
seeker and it made me a spokesperson but
then at a certain point in the success
of that band I started realizing okay
now we're big and there's a lot of
people who are following those
sort of principles of controlling your
senses we don't drink we don't smoke
here
we don't take drugs we're you know we
can care about what we eat but that's
not the goal that's like a doorway to
something bigger and so for me I had to
step away from that even though it
wasn't bad or anything it wasn't what I
wanted to become and that it was a
certain point in my life you know you
get to a certain end of a chapter in
your life and it for me in at the time
was the height of the Bands career as
well we started touring internationally
and stuff like that but I realized there
was no amount and and by the way this
was 80s in New York which is a very cool
time
Run DMC Madonna The Beastie Boys he
never knew like what was about to like
blow up and you were with all these
other people that they were your
inspiration and they were your friends
and stuff like that
so at that height and excitement I just
said there is no amount of like material
success I want that's gonna fill sort of
like a god-shaped hole in my heart
there's nothing out there that I want
and it was it was also a very precarious
time in my life or not precarious but a
time where my father went into a coma
for three years I know it's all right
it's so horrible to even say think about
it
what happened was he got some unknown
lung infection was young
64 the unknown lung infection and there
was some neglect in the hospital and his
lung collapsed and so comas are one of
these places where you don't is he dead
he's is he alive and it's so confusing
for a person that loves that person how
to even react and you know in it I'll
say in a humiliating way I couldn't real
I couldn't deal with it
and I sort of shut myself off and I went
and just started working on my music
something I could do and then at his
death when he finally left his body I
was
cultivating a strong desire to go to
India and and study more and I was at
that time I was also studying yoga
Ayurvedic medicine so he went into a
coma for three years three years hard
and then when he died at the end of the
coma at the name I never came out of the
coma and when he when he left his body I
decided I'm going to India now this is
that was a sign for me and I quit the
band and this is at the peak of the band
it was at the peak of youth of today
yeah was that hard to walk away from all
that you know what I was at a point
where I was saying and you probably
experienced this too and I'm sure Eddie
probably does too sometimes when you
become very successful at something that
same thing sorts this the thing that you
love sir can eat away at you as well
sometimes sometimes the peep I'll share
it I'll share with you how I how I saw
it
I remember sitting in an ashram on 24th
Street a Shiva Nunda ashram Shiva none
there was like a Swami he came he
traveled the world he taught the
teachings of yoga outside India and he
wrote lots of books and there's a
library of books worse bookstore up on
24th Street where he has an ashram in
New York City and I remember reading
this one quote by him in the midst of my
life is in a band and being a teenager
living in New York City and it was
before you first so the first one was
really interesting where is your
happiness coming from is it coming from
your day-to-day living or is it just
happiness from your ego and I thought ah
where is my happiness coming from is it
from me being a person that I want to be
is it from you know people people
nowadays they collect houses they
collect cars they collect so many things
I collected records I collected rare
Punk records and in my brain I thought
oh man this and you understand what the
music scene was like that if you're
unfamiliar with it there was a band that
was great and they put out one thousand
seven inch records and then a band broke
up yet the punk scene always grew so
these what records you bought for two
bucks are now worth
people pay $100 for that record and so
me and my guitar player Purcell we had
like thousands of incredibly rare Punk
records that if you remember the world
of records no one played their records
because you could damage them what you
did was you put everything on a cassette
and so I started thinking about this
quote by the Swami who said man where am
I getting my pleasure from I'm thinking
well my records are pleasurable I was
like well actually the music's
pleasurable the records are only
pleasurable when somebody comes over my
house and says oh my god you got that
record that records Oh impossible that
again and so once I've read that it was
the first shattering of my concept of
self and where what is joy and what is
pleasure based on my ego and all those
records that are really valued and I had
really valuable records and we started
our own record company at the time so we
would basically print limited editions
of their Bant
we put out all our friends records sick
of it all Gorilla Biscuits these are all
bands that we grew up with our own band
youth of today and so we put out these
records we'd make a limited edition and
then we trade these it's like printing
your own currency basically to make a
long story short after I've read that
one quote my whole concept the pleasure
changed and I took all those records and
I threw them out on stage to all fans
record collector fans it was all it was
one all the rare ones it was so
liberating for me to do that it was like
the shit was like maybe like the first
attempt of shedding my ego that was a
roundabout story but the second part of
what that Swami wrote was and I'm
paraphrasing this of course it the
diseases of the soul are not new they're
ancient the soul is pure the spirit is
pure but it gets covered by lust greed
anger and envy and I started thinking I
don't let me lost lusty I'm not greedy
I'm not angry I'm in a band I have no
money you know and if you've ever been
in the band it costs money to buy a
guitar got a guitar cost money to buy
strings got strains cost money to buy an
amp so it's just like it
money pit to be in a band and get paid
50 bucks or whatever so I thinking not
me
but as my band got more successful I
realized man I do have there is money
out there that I want and I remember got
I got offered money for the first time
being a band Wow I'd get money I should
get you know I wrote these songs I
should get more of that money you get in
a fight with the drummer no I should get
that money we should split it four ways
no way I just so much more I booked
everything and I realized wow I wasn't
not greedy I just had no money I I'm
covered with greed people hate the
greedy hate the rich hate the 1% you got
to see what would happen if you were in
that position yeah so that was like my
first lesson in like actually I'm
complete I thought I was above it
because I didn't drink cuz I didn't
smoke because I was a vegetarian big
deal big deal and it was these and the
spirituality starts to work on these
subtle things that are plaguing me and
you know the people who really want
social justice out there they're it's
very easy to point the finger at
everybody and watch what everybody else
is doing wrong but in on the yogic path
it's about like putting the microscope
on ourself where am I wrong if I really
want to change how can I start to really
do some psychic surgery of my own ego of
all these other things that are that are
there baked on to the spirit so anyway
that was I can't remember how he got on
that tangent I'm sorry I'm going
tangents a lot feel free to go into
engine that was a that was my first like
glimpse of like where I'm at and so my
point was my success oh you you said
what was it hard to give up the business
and I was like no I was so over it I was
over because here's another one Envy
that plagues the soul they say so
there's Pete there's people that are
looking up to Joe Rogan I want to be
like that and there's people that maybe
you're looking although you're pretty
big right now I don't know if you're
looking up to anybody but but they're
the feeling like in a corporate world
where someone wants your position hmm
and that plays a person a person who's
not gracious or a person who's like
there's a scarcity mentality there
there's a younger but I know in the
music world there's a band coming up and
there's a band I want to get to and I
realized that all these real subtle
things they were plaguing my heart and
these are the things I wanted to work on
and yeah so yeah was it hard to give up
no it wasn't it was great I think even
relinquished it you were on like a
spiritual quest I was less legitimate
one people talked about that kind of
stuff all the time
like getting spiritual or being on a
spiritual quest but you you legitimately
went on this quest and that's why I
found it so fascinating that's that was
what was so appealing to me it's like
okay this is a real one because there's
not a lot of real ones there's a lot of
people that pretend to be on the
spiritual quest want everybody to think
they're spiritual it's like you were
talking about the pleasure what's the
pleasure of owning records well the big
pleasure was people coming over your
house to think you're cool because you
have these records it's the coolest
record man that's the same that
spirituality in a lot of ways what
people love is the fact that someone
finds out that you do yoga every day
where someone finds out that you
meditate someone finds out that you've
read these books the ego so damn sneaky
isn't oh it's so sneaky
and sometimes it's fucking obvious shit
like you know it's like a funny story um
Bryan Callen when I first met him he's
with us too yeah yeah yeah I love that
guy to death but when I first met him I
went over his house he had apartment in
Venice no doorknob the doorknob had been
broken out so you could just open his
door and walk in
anybody could open his door and people
would walk like he would come downstairs
and there was a homeless lady cooking in
his his kitchen she goes son you got it
going on and and he was like what it's
just eating my food she was just cooking
food in his house but I came over his
house and he had a book I forget what
book it was it was something obvious
like Catcher in the Rye or something
like that sitting on this I go it was
just sitting on his coffee table you're
not reading that book
I'll give you put that book out here so
when girls come over to think you're
smart and it's like you're so right of a
fraud
we're both
howl and laughing but that's a thing
that people do like people want a
well-stocked library not just to read
those books read the books then but yes
but it's also there's an issue where
people want people to think that you're
this brilliant erudite interesting
person because you have all these books
in your house like that's that's there's
a there's a factor in that
they say that jiva or the spirit has to
go through a tail elements in each
element to leave the material universe
this is according to the Yogi's and they
get progressively double in size and the
last one so the first one is earth and
then that last one is you go mmm it's
the hardest it's the biggest of all of
them and it's so refined even people you
do altruistic things you do things for
your self betterment it gets wound up in
religion you can sign up and diet it can
stand up in politics it gets wound up
and in race and it gets round up wound
up in animal rights it gets wound up in
against animal right you know everything
that evil is that is the biggest thing
and you could sort of see it on a person
too and I and and and almost better than
seeing on some someone else is to see it
on yourself that's like that's the work
of the yogi it's try to see ma'am I was
motivated by that yeah look that was a
motivated again mm-hmm so yeah it's a
constant um checking in with the ego I
think that was part of my I mean think
about it I came from sort of like a
scene where everything everybody had to
be cool a certain way there's a certain
look a certain dress certain you know
sneakers we wore certain haircuts we
wore and then we're dopey robe mm-hmm
and I'm walking around and it you know
it was you how long were your month I
was a monk for about six and a half
years Wow
yeah and it was a it was a great time of
life and how old we limit I was 22 so
from 22 to 28 you a month I was a monk
that means celibate no masturbating
nothing for seven years seven years of I
lived in ashrams in India and in America
and I traveled all over the world
actually but it was it was I but I'll
tell you what brought me to that place
after them after being very materially
frustrated and I said
two main factors were some type of
material success I wasn't the Beatles
when I wasn't you know Michael Jackson
but I had somewhat ears I had fans and
then realizing how life can get taken
away from you in a moment
with with that precarious place my
father was at it just made me start
thinking what the hell am i doing in
this short in this short life what am I
supposed to do
give me some GPS give me some where do I
go from here what do I want out of life
what is the what is a home run is it you
to be as very famous is that is that the
home run is it to be collect tons of
stuff is that a home run is to live a
natural life is that a home run is to
learn some art you know some type of art
is that a home run and so this was like
my burning question and now it's still a
New Yorker and was still sort of like
you know New York in the 80s was a
little street smart New Yorker I'm
actually from Connecticut but I started
hanging out in New York City my parents
were New Yorkers and so we stood my
older brothers lived in the city so I
visit them but something that time I was
14 I used to just go to New York City
and just hang out on the weekends and
when I became a monk or what and went to
India I had saved about 25,000 bucks not
a lot of money not tons of money but it
was you know some money I made and I
thought in my brain okay this is my
cynical self I'm gonna go to India I'm
gonna meet a guru the Guru's gonna want
all my money
this is how it works but when I actually
lived with the monks in India especially
India then 1988 there is no central a/c
and it's hot there's no heat and it's
cold in the winter the showers are
freezing because all the water's kept on
a tank on the roof of the ashram in the
summer that water super hot because it's
all kept on a tank on top of the ashram
there's no creature comforts whatsoever
you go to bed early you wake up super
early you go to bed you know 8:30 you
wake up three o'clock in the morning
there's nothing that there's nothing to
buy there's nothing to purchase all the
fun things that we like to to like ease
the pain of existence are not there you
know there's no movies there's no
television there's no comedy there
there's nothing and so two things happen
when you strip everything away from a
person they lose it they hop the fence
so to speak and I've seen that happen or
they learn to find their pleasure from
something more subtle and so when I
first went there and saw the joy of the
monks I realized they don't want my
money they don't want anything I have to
offer them I want what they have that
was sort of a game changer moment for me
I want to figure out how to be connected
with nothing what did these guys do all
day
everybody does every I storms got their
own thing you know it means you have
chores that you do to earn your food
like yeah you know every ashram is gonna
be different and every spiritual path
it is Christian monks and you know monks
from different traditions around the
world I'm sure they all got their thing
different things but later I started
doing my next band because the
interesting thing about the
bhagavad-gita the bhagavad-gita is
you're familiar with it's one chapter of
the biggest epic in the world the
Mahabharat and it's a it's the most
studied and discussed and commented on
by all the saints of ancient India
people even bring it to politics and
stuff but it's a real conversation
between the spirit and divinity and it's
a conversation about just about it's
just it's just considered ancient wisdom
for all people so the one of the ideas
of the Gita is you don't give up what
you're born to do you do what you do but
in a spiritual way you don't try to like
wipe out your desires it's not gonna
happen
you take what you do and you do it in a
way that is going to assist you in your
liberation and as
can assist everybody else so even I'll
say I love comedy but I want comedy that
uplifts me and not doesn't degrade me I
like entertainment that when I walk away
from it I learn something I feel like
I'm growing I feel connected
I don't want stuff that's gonna just
give me darker thoughts like the Joker
I've never seen it you didn't see it I
didn't I want to say that I live on a
farm I look at a farm
we've rare I rarely watch anything
except comedy I love comedy because I
think laughing is important but I don't
watch so much TV so I'm pretty if I do
go to the movie movies it's out of like
with my wife let's just we want to go
away from the kids we want to do
something right but there's no plan on
what to watch but I'm open to good ideas
The Joker's a really good movie but it's
really dark he's really dark you walk
out there feeling really confused thank
you like did I like that like that I
know it was awesome I know it was really
well done but did I like that and it's
just it's a it's complicated I mean we
could get we could talk about the Joker
for the next two hours you know you know
the mind is like a garage and you you
become like what you store in that
garage
so the thoughts the thoughts that we put
in the mind we got to be careful with
the words just we were talking about
mantras before these mantras are like
repetitive sounds but they're considered
trans-identified chant the hare Krishna
mantra so the Christian of mantra you
might have known it from the soundtrack
of hare Hari Krishna Hari Krishna
Krishna Krishna Hari hari hari Rama Hare
Rama Rama Rama Hari Hari it's considered
a transcendental sound for the mind and
it sort of connects this the soul with
divinity it doesn't matter what religion
you are it's considered a mantra or
sound vibration that is a potency on the
Mon that's where they get the word
mantra from it delivers the month or the
mind so what we store in the mind starts
to create our external being and if you
don't believe in it it's one of those
things we have mantras in our mind
anyway I have things on loop running
through my mind
that have been handed to me from parents
from from elementary school teachers
from crazy uncle for whatever we get
things handed to us and we play them on
repeat and sometimes their mantras of
self-deprecation self-loathing you're
not good enough and these are the
mantras running through the mind so and
the yoga system says notice those
monsters that's part of self edification
or self-realization you notice what's
playing in the mind and you replace
those mantras with transit dental sound
or at the very least training the mind
to see greatness in people that's a big
thing because the mind the way the
material mind wants to see those
shortcomings right because if I find
your shortcomings it makes me feel
better about myself
that's crazy thinking it if you've got
thousands of shortcomings that doesn't
make me better at all so the material
mind which is sees one a cell insecure
that I have to lash out at other people
to make myself feel whole and it's just
crazy crazy thinking stinking thinking
whereas the yogi trains I specifically
teach bhakti yoga which is a it's it's a
it's called the yoga of connection or
the yoga of the heart and it starts to
deal with all the essence of the
teachings of the Gita which is you train
yourself to see greatness in other
people and if I start to note it's good
you could take this from a micro like my
relationship with you I want to notice
all Joe's great qualities now when you
hear that you might think well he
doesn't really know me I got some bad
qualities it immediately makes you a
little vulnerable and you start to think
well but you appreciate it and and
anybody in our life who appreciates us
sometimes they even see things in us we
can't see in ourselves we want to become
like that that's why this idea of
changing the world really starts with
your self connection as I am a spiritual
being Joe is a spiritual being and I
start to train myself in not seeing what
Joe does wrong seeing everything he does
right and it's a great exercise for the
brain what does that do person do right
what is the good in this person that I
that I'm overlooking cuz I'm just I've
got these lens it's a lens that we wear
of trying to find shortcomings in people
and it screws people up tremendously
even so-called spiritual people mm-hmm
I've said it rolled yeah you could work
me anytime you well so you spent six and
a half years living like this in this
ashram just going to sort things out no
no sex no masturbation what are you
eating that of it what kind of food they
serve you a strict vegetarian diet and
and not only that the ID this is an
interesting point too and it's debated
about in especially you know I was a raw
foodist so that these wrong who is there
all everyone's got their take on
medicine and healing let me share the
yogi perspective of it okay
the missing ingredient in food the
vitamin the superfood that is never
spoken about is love food is supposed to
be grown prepared and then offered and
the offering is not even to a human
offering us to God
that's called Prashad food is first
called bhaga bhaga means it's for
enjoyment and then you take that
enjoyment but before you enjoy your
offering it first back like in sacrifice
the idea is that everything in this
world is not for me everything is I'm
not the center I'm here to serve the
center so all the food takes on the
consciousness of the prepare of the food
hmm
so to eat junk food or to have people in
very low consciousness cooking your food
you're taking that into your body you're
taking the consciousness of the prepare
of the food do you believe that I
definitely believe it yeah I definitely
would feel a tangible effect if I walked
outside that line so for years I'd only
eat food cooked by Brahmans like like
the priests of the ashram or I would
cook it myself or later I have a very
weird story which was I became a bunch
of
friends that were monks we started our
own band and we started a record label a
second record label in the ashram I kid
you not it's almost an unbelievable
story and perhaps the first time
historically there was a celibate
rock-and-roll band but this band end up
ended up becoming bigger than the second
band this was my band shelter and so
what happened was this band when we
started though we were all monks and we
would take a candy stove on tour with us
and we'd pull over the side of the road
and we make kid tree with rice and dal
and you know fenugreek and coriander and
cumin and we just cook him because we
wouldn't eat outside food because if you
did you would you would you would feel
it you would feel it affect your mind
really I kid you not
that's like that I can say there's
certain things like I don't know there's
certain things that they speak about in
ancient indian literature that i can say
maybe i don't know so you think miletti
there's certain things that I know I
definitely experienced think most people
are just numb to that numb to the effect
of taking the consciousness of someone
who's on a low vibration is cooking your
food you just numb do it you just heat
the food cuz you're hungry art people
there's numb to it the people that
aren't aware that concept yeah people
are aware to kind I mean that's an
example a home-cooked meal definitely
feels yes
taste better it tastes different or
feels feels different yeah as opposed to
some guy just and you know you know
making burgers at White Castle or
whatever it yeah so so I don't know it
depends on that but it's a perception or
is it as an actual energy oh and doesn't
matter I think it's both mm-hmm there's
it's almost like fire is gonna burn
whether it I believe it or not right but
there's is there is a concept of once
you get that food you don't eat the food
you honor the food mm-hmm so it's not
going to be like me shoving stuff in my
mouth which I do occasionally all right
if you've seen my eating habits but it
should be more of a minute the eating
itself should be a meditation and it's
been proven I'm not one of these guys
there's a thing that's there's a
similarity that's gonna seem like it's
not it like it's not a parallel
but in hunting when you hunt an animal
and you kill that animal and you butcher
that animal and then you feed it to your
family it's a it sounds almost
hypocritical it sounds like there's no
way that would be a spiritual feeling
but there's a connection to your food
that's very very different
well we've divorced ourselves from
killing animals for the most part for
the most part most people hire people
right most people have no clue where
their fruits come from their vegetables
come from what a cup what you know what
a Brussels sprouts look like when they
grow what a bananas look like when they
grow what is ground round you know right
so we've divorced ourself from our food
and that's sort of anyway I understand
what you say there's we've definitely
divorced ourselves from our food but
even agriculture
I'm sure if you raised cattle and then
killed them and ate them you would feel
differently than buying it in a
supermarket but there's something even
more intense about the quest of
acquiring a wild animal you're going
into this world the first time I ever
saw a wild deer that I was going to
shoot I swear to god it was like a
psychedelic experience I was like I was
looking in the eyes of this thing in its
world this wild world in Montana and I
realized like whoa this is a different
dimension like I'm entering into this
wild this thing might not have ever seen
a person ever and it's looking at me and
I'm gonna take its life and I'm gonna
eat it and but in the way I was
encountering this thing because it was
so intense and there was so many it was
nerve-wracking
it was difficult I was exhausted we're
in the mountains were trekking for hours
and hours and hours to try to get close
to a deer but the locking eyes with the
deer I was like oh I didn't expect like
he saw you he saw me and I saw him but
it was also there was there was a
sharing of information there was a an
acceptance of the roles that we both had
that made me realize this is his life
this is how he does every day every day
he's looking at mountain lions and
there's a wolf over there and there's a
bear over here I get the fuck out of
here like this is the existence and
that bringing that meat home was
infinitely more enjoyable than getting
something from a store and also just
felt differently it gave me gratitude I
had a connection to that animal and made
me think about it every time every bite
I took I didn't take any of it for
granted I meant a lot I wish that
everybody that ate meat went out and
hunted yeah it's just there's not enough
animals there's too many people in the
system you know look we we fucked it
already we fucked it already with cities
we fucked it already with large-scale
agriculture we fucked it already with
mono cropping we fucked it already with
you being able to buy food any way you
want is the reason why there's so many
of us at the end of the world Joe it's
not the end of the world it's a new
world it's I mean obviously right now
ready everything's fine look feel that
everything's fine we're in this room
it's sustainable
I mean people look at it in terms of the
extrapolate like if this happens and
that happens we keep going oh my god
it's gonna be awful in 10-15 years guess
what they thought that when the car came
out they thought that when the printing
press was invented they thought that
when when people stepped out of the
caves and and started building huts this
has always been the case of people we're
terrified of change you know I'm not I'm
not terrified that the world is ending
that it's unsustainable we have problems
we have challenges for sure but one of
the big ones is that were divorced from
nature in a very very strange way and
most people are urban population centers
most people don't encounter nature if
you're in Manhattan your best bet is
Central Park which is the most
bastardized zoo like form of nature
you're ever gonna find the right it's
not real nature like where you live you
live in upstate we got bears yeah foxes
yeah real nature it's real nature you
guys have ticks I don't have Lyme
disease but it's a serious thing too
huge them it's a huge thing and I pulled
off many ticks a bull's eyes on my arms
and you get antibiotics right away
yeah yeah yeah they're fuckers a lot of
kids have lunch
a lot of people have it it's terrible so
horrible it's they said there's some
area of the East Coast where something
like 60% of all the ticks Lyme
Connecticut well yeah that - yeah you
know a lot of people think that that was
initially some sort of biological weapon
I heard yeah you ever get to the bottom
or you I don't think anybody's gotten to
the bottom of it but there's enough
inquiry that serious people have started
researching this and there's an there's
enough real concern that that was the
original origin of it that it really was
some sort of a biological weapon that
escaped from a lab because there's no
doubt that they've invented biological
weapons she no doubt they've
experimented on different ways to fuck
people up and one of them is mass
illness and sickness and it's just a
fantastic way especially if you have an
immunity if you're vaccinated you can
expose other people to it they had a
vaccine for Lyme disease but it wasn't
effective not only was it not effective
it actually gave people arm disease well
in fact my managers dad got Lyme disease
from the vaccine for Lyme disease yeah
fun times yeah like boy I don't want to
get this Lyme disease better get
vaccinated and then also why do I joints
hurt how can I neither and fucking pain
every day how come I can't walk right
well you know when I lived out here you
just have to actively look for nature we
used to go to Stoney Point
mmm in that place a panga and you know I
used to take my kids when they were
little all the way down victory
I think victory dead ends and then you
there's all those mountains and then yep
victory yeah you just got to make like a
plan
you know and in and I will say when
people come up to our farm you know we
run a retreat center and when people
come up there the first thing that thing
is oh my god the Stars it's like you're
divorced from the moon and the stars
that's the stars are big man I remember
the first time I went to Hawaii I went
to the Keck Observatory in the Big
Island and we went up there and we got
out of the car and it was like you're in
a spaceship like you're in a spaceship
and you look out a giant window and
there's nothing else just space like a
movie you see the full Milky Way and all
the stars it's SPECT
ocular up there and this is one of the
reasons why they have the observatory up
there because it's really high it's like
the where we were was not the very top
there's the top and then there's a
visitor so that's right
yeah the visitor center I think is like
I want to say like 10,000 feet or
something like that but then you get
even further up like 1213 and then you
hit the where they have the telescopes
up there on the Big Island it's fucking
amazing it's amazing if you get up there
on a clear night when there's no moon
which is what we got really lucky
because I've been back since one time
was cloudy and the other time we fucked
up and got up there it was a full moon
and just wasn't the same wasn't the same
but when it was no moon man it was
spectacular like life-changing like like
you look at it and all the sudden you
you have a fresh perspective like oh
we're a part of the infinite there's a
spiritual experience you get when you
just throw yourself under the stars
you're like oh I get it
yes I'm tiny I thought I was big but
that's a that's a real symptoms a real
issue and a real cause of why we're so
disconnected and why we're so egocentric
and so we're not humbled like here's
here's an example where do when you
think about people that are humbled
they're like cool people you think of
two things you think of people live by
the ocean and you think of people live
in the mountains because those people
are confronted by undeniable evidence of
the majesty of nature undeniable like
tiny yes part of something much bigger
also you're surrounded by like I lived
in the mountains outside of Boulder for
a while and when you're driving up there
you're you're confronted with undeniable
spectacular beauty that really is fuck
every painting that every one's ever
made it's all see snow-capped mountains
with a lake and just trees and you see a
deer bouncing across the road you see a
fox like fuck this is amazing I mean it
just changes your physical state to look
at you like whoa like no artwork could
ever do but we don't think of it like
that we just think of oh there's the
mountains well there's something about
beauty right there's physical beauty in
terms of like you see a woman that's
beautiful and you're looking at symmetry
and you're looking at genetics and
there's something that's a try
active about that because of your DNA
right your you want to breed with this
person because this person has beautiful
symmetry and their true but there's
another kind of beauty there's a
physical beauty in nature that's
spectacular that doesn't serve any real
purpose for you like why do you feel
that way why are you enamoured by this
vision of this glacial River running
down through these mountains and seeing
these birds fly around an eagle soars
away why is that so spectacular why is
it so attractive that's I don't know but
it whatever it is there's a feeling that
you get when you encounter those things
that's unlike any other feeling and we
are divorced from that feeling it's one
of the best feelings that a human being
can can get when you could sit down like
one of the best best things about
hunting is just sometimes like you take
a break and you sit down on a ridge and
you're just drinking water and just look
now it fuck right this place is amazing
it's just amazing for do the Grand
Canyon yeah I've been but not since I
was a kid yeah yeah another one of those
things it's like is this even real yeah
I know I mean but you know what I used
to have a bit about the Grand Canyon
about people telling you oh my god you
have to go you have to go the Grand
Canyon is so amazing I go yeah you know
what's amazing that look up look up
above you is infinity you're looking at
a fucking you look at a tiny girl you
can see the bottom it's very good look
look up you're in fucking space there's
actually quite unbelievable Tamim one
yeah but that is the one that we're most
divorced from so think about the the
beauty of seeing nature of trees and
lakes and seeing fish jump and amazing
this the beauty that I got from seeing
the sky from the Keck Observatory with
no moon just all stars
it was just like humbling just humbling
beyond words like reset my idea of where
I fit in and where earth fits in where
people fit in and made me feel in a
weird way at least temporary before
where's
because it's just you know normal
conditioning temporarily more connected
to people I felt more more in tune with
people more like we are in this together
we're all we all need to help each other
because we're all flying through
infinity and any at any point in time a
rock could just come down here and slam
into this fucking plan take a quarter
just like yeah like this I could do with
the dinosaurs yeah and kill us all it
looks like the good has done multiple
times throughout history and they're
constantly recognizing these new areas
or impact craters it happened 70,000
years ago yeah they're always finding
them they're always finding them they're
like oh geez look at this no one no one
no one prepared for it no we can't you
know there's stuff these reductionist
scientists these guys you'll talk to
them like we have a solution we could
stop but we could do this we could do
that but then you talk to the real
hardcore people that actually study the
the the complications involved in
deflecting asteroids and it's not and
they're like no we need years we need
years and years and years of planning if
we find something coming our way and we
know it's coming on us we need all the
best minds in the world and it still
might take a decade to figure out how to
do something about this well and then we
might see the other one that's coming
behind the Sun we might not see one it
might write coming from a direction that
we're not observing but when you can't
how about one you can't receive yeah
yeah there's a lot of those too we don't
even know we don't even know what we
can't perceive right
yeah but the vulnerability that comes
from that feeling is also very freeing
it's not a bad vulnerability was the
vulnerability that I got from looking
off into space didn't make me sad or
scared
it made me in awe yeah I felt better
I'm my kids went to a Waldorf School
yeah they were that yeah my oldest kid
went to one in Boulder when we were
really there yeah so they went there
some graduated from there and my kids
weren't there they've been home school
for the last two years but there's a
strong now they go to this this survival
homeschool camp no ruins yeah it's they
make fire by friction they're outdoors
like all day long flying deer I'll just
give it
right now flying dear dot-com that'll
work but they're outside all day long
like nine o'clock in the morning three
o'clock in the afternoon Wow they're
built it does matter what the weather is
it's like I'd even drop them off like in
the rain I was like I'm so sorry but get
out but you know they become resilient
they become strong and you know what
they do when they come home them and all
their friends got 13 kids it's like 50
degrees out there playing outside in the
drizzle barefoot and they're just like
strong and happy and connected kids
these homes to it they get used to it
and when I become like a domesticated
dog yeah right we're sort of like you
know they're not wolves right they're
domesticated dogs they like their food
from the jar yeah ever made the bag like
Marshall you met Marshall is he
domesticated oh my god what do you think
he's as domesticated as you get yeah
that dog is the sweetest thing that's
ever lived
Oh Marshall your dog yeah Marshall I'm
sorry yes it's true
yeah he's well he's well kept he's the
sweetest of sweetie pies sure but that
is a domesticated animal I know
mmm coyotes come into my my property and
a sheep and so uh I got my dog all right
come on let's get those coyotes to see
him I ran outside the dogs just like
goes back inside yeah yeah you got to
get the dogs used to coyotes just like
your kids are used to the outdoors yeah
you got to get a dog who knows the
Coyotes an enemy I'm living my I'm
living reliving my childhood that's
interest in my kids how far away you
from civilization up there you know the
cool thing is not that far if I need to
go to an Apple store or something it's
like an hour to Albany that's not bad
yeah two and a half from Boston oh
you're only two and a half hours from
Boston two and a half from New York City
oh that's not bad
yeah supersoul farm and yeah it's uh we
do like our yoga workshops and things
there and some people travel to you
people travel to us we have weekends we
have a whole sack
you know 5000 square foot house for
guests a yoga studio on the property
amazing it is cool
it's crazy got a swim pond wow there's
something cool about when it's hot out
like it does get in the East Coast yeah
you could just jump in a pond oh yeah
yeah but you also get parasites
I drink it man comes right from the
mouth and I drink spray well you're
pretty high up then are you high there's
nothing above me okay
yeah then your are sort of in a valley
and it comes right from the head the
real issue is beavers yeah if something
dies above I guess well shit - its
beaver fever you get Giardia right I
drank out of a lake in Alaska and I was
like really intense it if Jeff is a lake
you can because this lake is a glacial
lake or excuse me it's a high elevation
lake and there's no beavers of that
altitude it was on Prince of Wales
Island and you could actually dip your
thermos into this lake and drink it it's
the cleanest clearest water you've ever
seen it tastes perfect exciting yeah
it's actually exciting yeah I think when
I first moved to the East Coast I was
just looking up different Springs
Saratoga Springs great place there's
just all these natural healing Springs
you should test that water the before
you drink it though they're publishing
it to someone to shake that bitch up
there are ones that are just coming out
of the side of a hill let's just go -
yeah a regular basis we have an artesian
well on our property which means it's
just naturally coming up mhm
or the t-zone I got to get the wiki on
that one but I think it says right sure
of the the pressure of the downward push
is forcing it up mm-hmm
what is the work well yeah artesian I
always see it used in terms of like
handcrafted things artesian yeah it's
like an artisan art that's artisan I
start a cetacean work I think that's how
artisan I'm sure I'm fucking this up
what is that a cover of your phone this
is our this is a gift this is our
podcast we do wisdom of the sages oh you
have a podcast everybody's a fucking POG
I'm waiting for my mom start one up
wisdom of the sages it's uh we do it
every it was boy
okay it was born at a mission relating
to or detonating a well board
perpendicularly into water bearing
strata Liang I hate when I read
something that makes less sense as an
angle so that natural pressure I think
you're kind of getting it though natural
pressure produces a constant supply of
water with little or no pumping the
water from artesian well okay so I'm I
was fucking it up with artisan I was
connecting the two of them I spelled it
that way when I looked at it first it's
that's a RT is a and the aquifer e I and
yeah the place that I lived in Boulder
had a well was amazing you get this
beautiful spring water like straight out
of the ground it's just incredible all
your water that you drank was just
perfect spring water to come on these
copper pipes it's great there goes our
T's enol versus RT medicine is
pronounced artisan a person skilled at
in applied art that's well that's arson
yes describes water with spouts out of
the earth under natural pressure that's
it yeah and so sometimes these old
houses in upstate New York or in
Massachusetts have water that's just
coming up and they build a tank in the
house to hold this water yeah it's great
way to get water yeah you think that's
going in your body on your body in your
skin in your mouth it's becoming you as
long as no one's fracking nearby that's
a that's that's probably on its massive
probably ever seen that movie gas land
no it's a great movie to heartbreak at
you angry it's hard yeah because they're
doing that right there's people in
Pennsylvania that it was just reading a
story about recently where they can't
drink their water they can't shower with
their water they have to get bottled
water if they travel someone else's
house to shower
it's fucking horrific it's heartbreaking
yeah they poisoned the water supply with
the this desire to get oil but on the
other hand we don't need Middle East oil
anymore so everybody's like look the
United States produces we're
self-sustaining we no longer need the
Middle Eastern oil but yeah but what
about these fucking people that can't
drink their water or it comes out of the
spout and they could light it on fire
my teacher rod not Swami who you would
love on the show he wrote a great book
if you ever want to breed a good sort of
a some modern-day autobiography
biography of a yogi it's about a Jewish
kid in the 60s travels hitchhikes from
London to India Wow
you can do that I think yeah but the
most part you can you gotta go through
Afghanistan all these hmm Khyber Pass
and he hits her in Afghanistan that's
gangster he's super gangster man yeah he
had a good he had a great experience
it's an all real adventure too and he
ends up in India living in the Himalayas
with sadhus Wow incredible incredible
stories called Auto bug a journey home
autobiography of an American yogi Wow
yeah I want to talk to that guy you
could hook me up with him yeah he's
great I I spent a month with him every
January really we do what we do a
teacher training a yoga training in
India every January I just got back from
it yeah I saw it on your Instagram it's
great it's super fun we do it we have
three academies we have a music school
where we study Indian music and kirtan
we have a 300 hour training for people
who are already teachers and we have a
sacred literature she's studied the
Bhagavad Gita and all these sacred texts
we were talking about that before the
podcast I really wanted to get into that
eventually it's you know like the the
the mystical aspects of the Bhagavad
Gita and of the Mahabharat all the
ancient Indian texts which are filled
with really wild out there shit you know
I mean it's all real in what way just
like all the things that you say like
well that's interesting that's fast
fascinating that's fantastic the more
you get into you me lies that's for good
real like what look what's real
everything from like the vamanos vamanos
eye things like that I can't say a real
but I could I could understand how
things can be made of subtle energy
explained V monster if you man is like a
spaceship yes it's like it's a spaceship
from and they speak of spaceships and
flying crafts but they're not made of
the same elements of this earth right so
we have all these things about you know
and I get it there's a bunch of people
making up shit about about
I saw an alien etc there's also very
qualified people you know airforce
Colonels and things like that I said
I've had them in here you've had a bit
yeah they said look at it and that they
suffer from the same thing these people
of these who claim abduction it's not
like a type of neurosis or schizophrenic
stress since yes like they something
happened they disappear they were found
two weeks later do you remember the
story of Betty and Barney Hill no it's
the most famous abduction story it was
an interracial couple from I think was
the 1950s or the 1960s and just random
my interviews always go here I had this
girl on the podcast this woman on the
podcast yesterday
she's an MMA fighter her name was Angela
Hill she's a couple days ago actually
this badass MMA fighter and at the end
of the podcast goes I forgot to bring
this up my grandfather is Barney Hill
and I was like that guy I'm like no
fucking way
that guy Barney Hill was the very first
like really public UFO abductee and
there's ricourt and he describes his
craft that's eerily similar to the
crafts that Bob Lazar is described and
different people described in he and his
wife lost time while they were driving
and then woke up with these bizarre
horrific memories that they both shared
of this encounter with these space
beings and that they were abducted and
they were medical examinations were run
on them then they were replaced with
missing time and it's crazy we listened
the recordings of him being hypnotized
and going through it like screaming and
fear that they're touching him and the
were they taking and what are they doing
to him it's not like a guy acting it's
not like a scene where a movie where
someone's screaming in fear it sounds
real and I just the teachings of ancient
India is that life exists on all planets
it even exists on the Sun and so the
first argument we like come on how are
we going to exist they just still have
bodies of different that are different
than yours I'd have a fire body and
therefore I'm trying to look at
how does a person with earth and water
body live in the Sun they can't right
you have to have a body I mean I used to
think like this when I was 13 years old
right I used to think like okay why
can't my dog hear those sounds but I
can't hear them right what am I missing
what sense am I missing that I can't
have objective reality yeah you know
what am I missing
am I missing a sense well I have this
this principle called the the fart
theory
like if someone farted but you didn't
have a nose you'd have no idea you'd
have no idea of no ID but oh god what is
that our theory is the beginning of
trans identify yeah because it's there's
a sense that you possess that allows you
to access ya recognize something that's
invisible you can't see it you can't
feel it you can't hold it there's
nothing you don't there's no way of
detecting it other than you're all
factory senses but through your nose you
can detect uh something's awful what
sense am i missing that's keeping me
from understanding absolute reality sure
I mean that's one of the things that you
feel when you take psychedelics like
this is opening up some new sense that I
was this around me all the time I'm just
not tuned into it because I don't have
the right chemical composition flowing
through my brain when I start to teach a
bigger training yoga training and
philosophy it's one of the things I do
mainly I start with this concept of this
is how you understand like when I first
approached teachers when I went to India
I would say things like I'm reading this
Mahabharat I think it's a great book a
lot of great lessons here but come on
we're adults
how am I supposed to understand that a
elephant-headed man scribed this entire
book can't we just extract a a useful
lesson and the answer was very good that
I got was and it was very sweet
it wasn't like cruel he just said what
do you know I sorta like caught me off
guard like what do you actually know
right what do you know and I and use
this example you from New York okay
suppose 300 years ago you're living in
New York your family's living in New
York your tribe is living in New York
you have a certain amount of animals and
animals that you keep animals that you
ride animals that you hunt foods you eat
and then one of you go
was on a boat to Africa and you come
back and you think you're never gonna
believe what I saw I saw a striped horse
you thinking well I've seen striped
horses white head black neck no no no no
I saw striped horse if you've never seen
a zebra it's almost unbelievable
if all you know is ponies right or I saw
this horse with a really long neck that
ate the leaves on the trees come on man
it's all fantastic because we've never
seen it right but that doesn't mean it
does so to really understand the Vedas
the teachings of ancient India you have
to go into it like not that it's all
real I'm not saying to just blind faith
but I'm not saying don't be a blind
doubter
like it's all unreal that's bullshit
that's crazy that's nuts it's got to be
could be I don't know but I don't know a
lot what do you think the Elif what do
you think like Ganesh was Ganesh the
being by the way when I speak I'm
speaking it's not it's not my feelings
and whether I'm right or wrong seeing
this is what the veil I'm a yoga teacher
so I teach what the Yogi's teach the
nations ganache is a being he's a Jeeva
Jeeva means he's a soul like in India
they say you don't have a soul you are a
soul you have a body so the bodies
change but the soul is eternal so that's
called the Jeeva tattva you understand
that you're separate then your your we
are separate than our bodies we were
said like you said earlier we're
separate from our thoughts were separate
from our subtle body or mind so you take
on a different row ghen machine a raghu
raghunatha machine and sometimes the
machines are good at warfare fighting
sometime the machines are good at art
sometimes the machines they're they're
just like a different vehicle you would
drive they different so you got a
Porsche or you got a 18-wheeler they're
both good for different things so in the
same way we have some karma as we're
karma ties then you have some karma to
have this body that has such good
fortune or poor fortune or some great
success
and it's the Karma of the body but you
have to leave that body so Ganesh is
also a post Brahma is also a post you
could have been a Brahma in a previous
life or could be one in a previous life
and you get a body just like you get a
body in this life according to you how
you act and how you behave and how you
think and the people you associate with
they give you a body for example if you
and I grow up together and all we talk
about is martial arts we got pictures of
Arnold Schwarzenegger on our wall we
start to create a body that emulates
those heroes and if we couldn't care
less and we just like watching TV and do
nothing we get a body according to so in
this lifetime we're making bodies then
we're making our minds we're making our
intelligence but the Yogi's say that
everything that we do is a practice just
like I just found out today that you
were tight Glendale champion by reading
your bio I know you read my bio I read
your bio on Wikipedia I was like I know
more I just know you from just rolling
around with you and that type of
camaraderie so you got that way from a
practice it didn't just like
spontaneously come you practiced and you
bring that practice with you wherever
you go and you can get better at the
practice or you can get a little good a
little down the practice but the Yogi's
say that everything that we do is a
practice it's our thoughts our
intelligence our skills our spirituality
our addictions they don't just fall from
the sky we work on them and you'll hit
and that's why there's these things
which another thing I don't know if
you've ever done this on your show study
the lives of what are they called
savants or like these prodigies it's
unbelievable
four years old musical prodigies yeah
like where is that coming from the
Yogi's say it's not random it's not
weird it's not quirky it's not
unexplainable it's a practice or that
was that child chess player from Norway
who could play like six people backwards
and meet them and not that he was not
facing them he's memorizing their board
where do you get that type of
intelligence
the Yogi's say it's a practice
or Mozart and Chopin or like virtuosos
at for how hmm and you'll hear you'll
see like the saints of India
they'll be spiritual virtuosos like from
a very early age like my teachers
teachers teacher like a was a
grandfather teacher he was like a master
of Sanskrit at age 4 whoa and could give
class on it and could imagine that at
age 4
he doesn't say you know what I was doing
you know when I was doing age 4
I was wrecking shit I was breaking
things yeah lighting things on fire you
know
Shankar Acharya another great like
teacher of India age 8 he renounced the
world at 8 initiated 10 thousand
disciples changed the course of all of
India at 8 he wrote commentaries you go
to Columbia University read commentaries
on the gita by this person who at age 8
walked away from his mother and said I'm
leaving for the forest it's it's
unbelievable this stuff's unreal
you behind this and I tell you when you
got it one of the fun things I do
usually is I do that school in January
the Academy but um in October and autumn
time I do a pilgrimage we go to holy
places and I take students like 30 or 40
students to holy places and we just meet
interesting cool people we go to we go
to temples we'll go to sacred places we
sing we sing it's fun it sits at the
very least it's like a fun experience
but it's also like very transformational
and you just meet the most fascinating
people it's still they are India's
changed dramatically since I went there
in 88
but huh huh how so oh it's like the
whole you know you I mean there was no
phones you wanted a phone you go to the
village there's one phone in the village
you know and also because when the
internet came you know if you think
about India it's such an interesting
place like when Greece was in its
infancy India was like a respected hub
of learning metaphysics spirituality etc
so India it's been invaded by moguls by
British by Portuguese
so many different cultures came there
and they can never really quite change
it
it was so woven into their DNA what they
were nothing changed it until my
lifetime and I watched it I watched when
cable TV hit India and it was paradigm
shifting cuz you gotta think you know
people dress you know you go to Germany
in the 80s people dress different you go
to Italy in the 80s people dress
different I mean there was no like
globalization of now it doesn't matter
you go to Paris Beverly Hills Scranton
Pennsylvania there's the same Victoria's
Secret there's the same gap you don't
you don't want to dress like gap well we
got this other store you could dress
like and they're just selling us sort of
the same thing people used to go places
for spices places for silk places bright
India was sort of like that too you went
there and you feel like I'm on another
frickin planet and now you got to dig a
little deeper to find that that's why I
recommend people go as soon as possible
because everything is gonna I mean we're
in the valley right now and there's one
point up on one of these streets up here
we want to follow your heart yesterday
I've ever been in that room yeah sure
love that place it's great place all
your heart great little grocery store -
a great grocery store but there's a one
little tiny block where there it looks
like the valley from 1950 and then
there's massive high-rises around it you
know and so we've what you know in our
lifetime we've watched places just get
paved over and it gets sometimes for the
better and sometimes for the worse but
truthfully there is a disconnect with
nature often even sometimes in the it's
better now that disconnect with nature I
sort of just like I feel more connected
I mean I now I take people on pilgrimage
and we stay at hotels and it's
definitely not like the old days when I
used to slum it in the ashrams but I
miss that slum in it - mm I miss sort of
like just being out there in the
elements when it was freezing and there
was no heat you were forced to take a
cold shower you know there was no
creature comforts you take a bus and you
enjoy it now
looking back on it I enjoyed it then
yeah there's something pleasurable in
renunciation I bet you can identify with
that yeah yeah when you have to do
something that you don't want to do for
a higher purpose but you're gonna do it
anyway there's a pleasure you get this
is a giant roundabout we went to but I
want to get back to Ganesh oh yeah so
what so what are you thinking that is
there higher beings now you might say
well what the hell is that me to higher
be the idea in the in Vedic thought is
that there's davis or higher beings and
then there's the devotee daiva the hot
like a judeo-christian tradition would
say god how much of what these people
were experiencing and talking about in
the bhagavad-gita and all the texts it
has to do with soma and has to do with
psychedelic rituals that they were
participating in while they were doing
these things so much do you know about
so much so funny said that yeah it's a
commonly known thing I think yea soma is
a beverage on the moon okay the moon is
it's a it's a beverage right it's just
that it's a combinatory beverage the
psychedelic Shore Accra meant that we
don't we haven't established by the way
I'm speaking like a matter of fact I
understand I don't I don't know this
yeah well I'm saying it could be true
and this is what they like all right
that's how we learn the Vedas these are
the ingredients it's otherworldly you
can't try to recreate it on earth
there's plants they say that grow that
don't grow here and there's meetings
that grow now we just hear these stories
and we just it's myth but you know what
the zebra is a myth I live a man I live
around a bunch of beautiful turkeys but
if you ever seen a peacock turkeys look
like boring you know what I mean
peacocks are unbelievable they're not
doing wha Quetzal is unbelievable you
know a pencil sketch loses South
American bright colors what's his name
crazy Montezuma war hat so when you if
all you know is Robins an occasional
Cardinal when you see a Quetzal or a
peacock it's like yeah right so someone
could say well
you know you're really gonna believe in
the wind-god
come on but we say hey look there's an
ant on the table and I blow on the ant
hey ant runs for his life in the ants
brain he's not thinking oh ragu is
blowing on me he's just thinking Danger
Danger Danger yeah I'm actually beat I'm
a being I'm a being with a family with
ideas with thoughts with a home so the
Yogi's say you don't know but there's
they say that everything is a
personality not just you because in one
sense if I look at you you're just a big
lump of earth and flesh you know water
blood whatever you whatever you want to
whatever lens you want to look at the
periodic table earth and Chinese
elements in Indian elements however
they're going to look at matter but
you're not the Yogi's say you're not
that you just have that so they say the
earth itself is a being it's a living
being and all the animals are living
beings and outside of the earth they're
ours living forces that all the planets
are beings that's why there's here's a
get ready for a detour that's why if you
study Geo teach or Vedic Astrology
there's different mantras
to the different planets because the
planets affects your karma so some
people want to they realize man like I
would love to get your chart done mmm
because when you have people like
yourself or even myself on a lesser
level where we have some some types of
extremes in our life you can read it in
their chart it's it becomes very obvious
same with criminals it's in their chart
really if you really knew how little
control we have of our life it's
shocking
now this strategy is is they called Joe
Tish or Vedic Astrology and it's based
no straw I'm no astrologer I just have
had my charts done a lot it's an ancient
system it's not based on the Sun it's
based on the moon and what do they need
to know they need to know you're your
birth time your longitude and latitude
of where your
born like for example I was born on I'll
tell you a good story do you mind
sure I went to a great astrologer once
and these guys are really simple humble
like humble people and they lived in an
ashram and I said I want to know my
chart and he just said I'm not very good
I said come on I have heard you're the
best he said I'm not very good and I
said but I will tell you what Paresh ara
thinks of you now Paresh ara was the
father of the person they say scribed or
spoke all the Vedas vyasadeva was one of
the great sages of india so par char was
his father and he's responsible for Geo
teach or the what's called the horror
Shastras where they get the word
horoscope from and these are all to do
with studying the luminary studying
celestial bodies and to pinpoint you in
relationship to them so he said well at
a certain period when you were born
there was a rising sign a rising star
and from That star we can calculate your
chart so he asked I gave him all my
statistics birth time and date and
longitude and latitude and then he
opened up these books that he had on his
shelf this guy doesn't know me from Adam
he just goes this is the star of music
and spirit and you will spread music and
spirit throughout the world whoa it's
pretty right on I've been through some
very powerful astrologers palm readers
mystics who don't even need your palm
they say their astrologers or they say
their palm readers they look right in
your face and tell you all about your
life and I kit and I'm not one like I've
met many who could blow your minds I
don't have to be someone who doesn't
doesn't know who I am yeah well it's
hard to find it's hard for you but I'm
less known but in India no one knows -
anyway but write it but but they won't
have to go to India it
you know it's one of those things and
I'm not one of these new-age guys right
I'm a New York skeptic okay but you
believe in Ganesh but I know I believe
goodness could be could he be sure sure
could be I think most likely people are
taking soma and Ganesh appeared to them
then or that because I haven't seen
things on psychedelic experiences that
are very similar to that very similar to
a God
I think psyckadeli can bring you into
this you know otherworldly realms and
even according to the Vedic concept is
there's other realms and everything's
divine and everything's there everything
is a person and there's thirty-three
million gods and then of course out and
that's within the material universe
right and the material universe has
higher planets it has lower planets like
the Christians would say hell but
their's they talk about whole mandalas
or discs um layers of hells but they
with these differences from Christianity
and I don't know where the Christians
actually got a got it from or when it
was added or subtracted but the Vedas
teach about none of them are eternal
meaning you don't stay there just like
we don't stay here we're just sort of
doing time on this planet we do time
we're learning a lesson you get some
karma you get some good good or bad
karma but we and if you don't learn your
lesson just like jail if you don't learn
your lesson sometimes you get added and
add it sentence or they can all have
these yeah okay you two life sentences
you know right but sometimes people are
out early they get they get paroled they
get pardoned or they get or that or they
just say okay you're in charge of the
library you're not dangerous you're not
a threat and we're gonna let you out
your good behavior so according to how
we behave in this world we're
perpetuating ourselves we're going way
low we're sort of go high and people go
high all the time it's impressive and
you take that micro and put it on a
macro as well and to the degree that you
sort of don't learn your lessons you
just that's okay I've noticed in my own
life if I don't learn a lesson I got to
get that same lesson again
mmm you know what I mean yeah I've had
this conversation with someone about the
idea that you will live your life over
and over and over again until you get it
right and that you will be reborn you'll
have the exact same existence and you do
it over again and this is this is a
concept that some people believe in now
I said how do you feel about that now
like that's terrifying
and I'm like why is it terrifying when
living is not right it's the same thing
it's the same thing like right like if I
had to live this life over and over and
look I'm having a great time I have a
lot of great friends I have a fantastic
family I have a wonderful thing that I
do for a living I am very very very
blessed I'm very fortunate if I had to
do this forever why the fuck would I
complain about that when I'm not
complaining about it now maybe his
life's not as good as yours but am I am
I scared of the Eternity of this
existence when I'm not scared of the
temporary nature of it that doesn't make
any sense like why would I be scared of
something that's ultimately very
pleasurable like I enjoy life I enjoy my
children and my wife
I enjoy my friends I enjoy my occupation
I enjoy I enjoy reading I enjoy watching
documentaries I enjoy encountering new
things I enjoy these things why would I
be upset if this went on forever why
would I be upset if I'm gonna be reborn
again and then I'm gonna be confronted
with the exact same problems that maybe
I fucked up when I was 10 and 20 and 30
and 40 but this time I'll have a better
insight I'll have a subtly better
perception of what is the correct thing
to do
what's the best thing to do for
everybody what's the the moral the
ethical thing to do you know and I don't
I don't know why that's terrifying to
people but it is it's terrifying the
idea of doing it over and over and over
again illy Oh Gracie believe that Ellie
Oh Gracie believed that you must do the
the exact right thing at all moments in
your life or you're going to live your
life over and over and over again until
you get it right I don't know what those
Gracie's were connected with in right
well they were connected with everything
man yeah that's one of the most
spectacular families it's ever
the face of the earth I mean you want to
talk about a contribution like the the
contribution that the Gracie's have made
to martial arts including our instructor
Jean Jacques Machado who was Frank that
he's a cousin of the Gracie's like
they're all they're all trained together
they're all together that that family a
Leo Carlos you know yeah I mean every
Carlson all those people they created
this most spectacular martial art out of
the origins of Japanese jiu-jitsu and
judo and then introduced it to the whole
world and literally changed hundreds of
millions of people's perceptions about
fighting out of this small family in
Brazil don't believe it's amazing and
they're all champions they're the whole
family's filled with champions and look
that's what made our you know that's
what made our friend Eddie when Eddie
tapped out Hoyle er Gracie and Hoyle er
was the motor option to the family to
artists and I was there I flew I went to
Brazil yeah we flew together with uh who
else was there
the blonde Jamie Jamie Jamie yeah Jamie
Jamie Walsh I don't know what I haven't
lost touch with him I don't know he
owned a moving company he had a fight
organization for awhile called Pangea he
was putting on MMA fights yeah Jamie was
my trainer for a long time oh really
he's a really good trainers good writer
yeah I remember I didn't know you went I
know he went yeah we all flew together
2003 flew down to Brazil and Eddie
caught oiler in the Triangle and I'll
never forget it I was watching it happen
I mean I was right there I was on the
side let's get that up on the screen I
was watching it happen I was well I
watched the triangle get locked up and
I'm like oh my god he's got him oh my
god I was like I was thinking wheeler
probably is gonna get out of this right
he's toiler crazy but I'm like that
doesn't look like he's getting out of
that that was so locked in and Eddie had
that masterful guard still does but he
always had this incredible guard and it
was Saudi and it was unique
yes it's if you're not used to
somebody's yeah game mm-hmm yeah I don't
think it says anything bad about Hoyle
er oh but it does say that there
to create EDIUS geniuses he's creative
like I've heard it like his music is and
he tapped another world champion right
before he tapped Euler he tapped gustaba
dantos right before he tapped Hoyle er I
was there for that too and I was like
holy shit
and then he was a brown belt at the time
which is really crazy but then when he
locked up that triangle I'll get
emotional if I think about it I mean I
was there on the side of the mat
watching I was like I can't there it is
so he tries what he did he threatened on
one side and then cinches up the
triangle you know what tell me what the
crowd was going like that dude total
silence let me tell you what happened
what they had done before this had
happened see he starts pulling the head
and once it pulls the head boy this is
right where hoes fucked he's tapping
he's tapping he had a tap he was going
asleep this right there in his corner
and then a whole crowd must have been
like yeah I'll just happened here who's
this he walked off and he made it look
like it was no big deal because he had a
fight Leo Viera right after that he had
fucked up his rib somewhere in this
scramble - and when he fought Leo Vieira
he was really messed up but when you
guys came back that day it was on hand
ammonia lievable was pandemonium that
people know it's hard for people outside
of the jiu-jitsu world yeah to
understand the magnitude of that
accomplishment but for me you know
Eddie's my best friend so you know
flying with him to Brazil was like you
know epic it's it was just this like
ultimate support thing it was like we're
gonna do this you know I'm gonna help
him he's gonna do this but when he did
it do they shut off all the matches
while it was happening they killed all
the matches outside of this main match
and they put it on television because
Hoyle er was you know the multiple time
world champion he was the most
accomplished out of what I mean he was
accomplished nogi yeah yeah well even
gay I mean coiler
in competition had accomplished more he
competed more than any of the other
Gracie's in straight jiu-jitsu he had
competed an MMA a little bit but like
hoist obviously accomplished the most in
jiu-jitsu in MMA hoist was the innovator
he was the first guy UFC one UFC to me
that was those are the most important
moments in martial arts voices
accomplishments in my opinion he's like
that's the most significant impact but
Hoyle er in terms of jiu-jitsu and juju
suggests to Jitsu competitions he had
accomplished more than anyone
he was a multiple time world champion
and when he was competing everybody
watched everybody knew Hoyle er was the
fucking man right and so when Eddie
tapped Euler it was silent I mean silent
we're in Sao Paulo Brazil I mean and
we're sitting there and Eddie is walking
like this and Jaime is just going holy
shit and I'm going holy shit we were
just like what just happened and we
walked off and there's a video of us
like going through the back hallway of
the arena we're going what just happened
how the fuck did that just happen
it was crazy it's crazy people stunned
no no one could believe it you know no
one could believe it yeah but you know I
think he gave hope even people like
myself like oh I get it you just figure
stuff out and there's hope for me it's
not like I think that's a great thing
about martial arts you you always we're
always looking for who's God mm-hmm and
you back then Vitor Belfort no one could
be felt
Belfort and everyone takes turns and
then he gets beat right and like almost
like breaks your hope I'm like in God
okay we're looking for that superhero
right but I think the beautiful
underlying story is like you can do that
you can you can work your way up this
ladder and figure out some unique stuff
and with Eddie he was like he wasn't
even a black belt yet that was the most
crazy thing like he just got that brown
belt
yeah well yet about a year so okay I
believe I believe he was a black belt or
brown belt for at least a year or so
because 2003 when I met him he was a
purple belt
and I met him in 1990 that's when I met
him at night honey I used to train with
Hinata okay though he's squeezing the
head there that's us that's incredible
[Laughter]
dream it we just couldn't believe it
frame that fuzz just crying he couldn't
believe it it's crazy it's crazy I wish
I went dude it's crazy to just watch now
in there you know they interviewed him
after him after he did it it was crazy
man it's hard to even watch it wasn't
just that he won he tapped him out off
his back I mean he used the ultimate
expression of jujitsu which is you know
in a vulnerable position the man's on
top of you and you still tap them it was
amazing you know and as sort of loud as
a big person as Eddie is he's actually
and if you know him what you do
he's got no ego about him there's no I
never feel like always making fun of
himself he's super hey if you don't know
him he seems like who is this big male
boisterous
he's super humble he's super he's he
gives all the credit to the Gracie's he
loves the Gracie's yeah and he loves
John charge yeah that was a you know
there's moments in your life where you
just realize like wow like things are
possible that was a possible motive the
things are possible
it's a weird things can happen you know
I was talking to a friend of mine about
imposter syndrome that uh imposter
syndrome yeah you know that feeling you
know expression no it's you get it when
like when people think that you're
really good at something and you don't
have a lot of self-worth or you you you
have this perception of yourself that
you're not worthy right you know it
maybe as an artist that's it's a big one
that you have it as an artist like I had
it forever as a comedian and I probably
still have it a little bit but less so
than I used to because I'm just more
accomplished and more
understanding of what it is and the more
engrossed in the process and I I know
what it is now more than I did before
okay and you like what I meet famous
people if they know who I am I'd be like
oh I gotta get out of here this fucking
person knows who I am I'm tricking them
right trick they don't know and they
like hey man I love your stuff I'm like
no you don't you think you know you
don't trust me let me get away from you
right it's like this imposter thing and
then sometimes things enough things
happen where you go you know what I
think I might be legit I think I might
be legit like this is so crazy like I
thought I was an impostor forever but I
think I'm gonna relax and just
concentrate on the work and not worry
about whether or not I'm an impostor
anymore and just concentrate on the work
that ego is always there yeah that's
always there man and but the ego it's
interesting imposter syndrome is often
more prevalent in people or legitimately
talented and for some strange reason
because when you're legitimately
talented one of the ways you become
legitimately talented is to be
ruthlessly self-critical because that's
that's how you get really good at
something and in ruthless self like I
remember Katt Williams was talking about
himself once and Katt Williams is a
crazy person but a brilliant comedian
and he said something that I have always
thought and he's like I'm not a fan of
me and he goes it goes like I don't you
know I don't particularly like me you
know it's like that is why he's great
because that makes you work so hard at
like the worst thing a comedian can be
in the beginning is sure of themselves
and then incompetent at the same time
it's horrible that's horrible because
you're not good but you think you're
amazing and then you understand you
don't know why the world doesn't think
you're amazing
because you think you're good because
you're delusional you have this sort of
artificial image of the world that
you've put up in in the world you are
the center you are the center and you
want everything to evolve around you and
the worst thing in terms of for comedy
you people have
you enjoy what you're doing they have to
enjoy not not everyone's gonna you're
always gonna have some people that don't
enjoy no matter what but you're trying
to make it an enjoyable experience for
the people watching you now if you are
delusional and clueless and if you you
don't understand how people see you you
you have a distorted perception of
reality distorted perception of your own
your own your own presence it fucks up
the vibe for the audience it fucks that
they recognize it too quickly because
comedy in a weird way is a spiritual
pursuit for the person who's making it
because you're putting together thoughts
and ideas and you're trying to get it
into these people's minds in a way that
elicits a response that makes them feel
good and the only way that you could
really do it is you have to hit those
notes you have to reach that that
resonance you have to find that
frequency whatever it is that works on
them and you can't be thinking about
yourself too much and you can't be
pleased with yourself can't be happy
with yourself you always have to be
analyzing you are you're the the
sculptor you have to be critical you
know always have to and so in doing that
it's really easy to develop impostor
syndrome because even when you think
doing well you know like if I can I've
had like I don't know nine or ten comedy
specials doesn't matter doesn't matter
how many people like and they suck I got
to keep going you got to keep working at
it
so when perfectionism yeah so when
someone would I remember how we even get
on to this but that imposter syndrome
exists because your your ego won't like
your mind understands that you ego will
fuck this up if you let your ego say oh
I'm the fucking man you're gonna ruin
this whole thing you have to you have to
be aware of what this is like this this
this ride requires you to stay within a
certain frequency you have to stay
inside that frequency as soon as you
start going yeah everything's fucking
awesome up it all goes away all that
goes away you have to stay inside that
frequency and that frequency is not
frequency where you're very pleased with
yourself I think you've gone for full
circle back to the bog of again yeah cuz
the bhagavad-gita is the Warriors have
to fight the war you think it's good you
think the bhagavad-gita is gonna be like
here's Krishna
telling Arjuna not to fight Arjuna
doesn't want to fight he's got his guru
on the other side he's got his family on
the other side
what's krishna gonna say about this and
Chris just saying you got to actually
fight you're born to fight mm-hmm
you just have to get out of your ego
with this and you have to do it it's
just a service and I think when I apply
that type of teaching to my life like
sometimes I'm not a great singer I'm not
a great you know
Indian classical music but I'd like to
do it and I'm enthusiastic too and to me
it's so it's not about me it's about
like sort of like an offering it was
like when one of the first teachings I
got in the ashram was when you're on
stage don't do it to make sure you're
doing it to serve God and not be God mmm
that statement changed my entire life
and I was like oh shit everything I do
is to be God everything it's changed the
way it didn't just change the way I sang
it takes away I parent change the way I
like react to friends to fans to my
parents you know it was powerful so that
I have to sometimes you know I like to
publicly sing on this have you heard
kirtan no it's so interesting what is it
it's it's it's it's chanting back and
call-and-response chanting of chanting
mantras and you use like this pump piano
and Indian drums please I'll place them
for you later okay then but it's great
and it's popular in America it's been
sort of Eric a little bit Americanized
but it's but it's good and it's great
and so what we do on pilgrimages
I have assistants and incredible drummer
he's from India and then I played the
harmonium which is pump piano and we
just sing publicly call in response and
all the Indian people in India will come
around
and they'll sing with us and it's like
it's overwhelming so there's one
particular temple I go to in one
particular holy place where singers come
from around the world it's like
basically you know Rolling Stones Led
Zeppelin it's like the best kirtan
singers from around the world come and
they sing and I remember one time I came
with a bunch of students of mine and
they called me up to sing and in my
brain I was like you guys are like the
real deal I don't want to sing and they
say no no no you sing and I was like no
seriously I don't want to sing please
you sing and like thousands of pilgrims
come in at the time and somehow I have
felt like I have to do this I have to
sing because that's what they're
ordering me to do I have to do it in a
loving way I have to do in a way to make
everybody excited but I can't do with
any ego whatsoever and it becomes like
this incredible tightrope walking can I
do my best with a can you get on stage
yeah and not it's not about me as the
great comedian you know can I do that
sort of as a offering where I feel like
people are gonna walk away with
something and they're gonna be changed a
little they're gonna be lifted a little
they're gonna go home a little bit more
connected it's gonna help me and it's
gonna help them and can I do it when
when people we have this thing where we
say we deflect our praise the people's
hey great shit
you're a great yoga teacher this how I
train my students you're great you know
that was a great thing you did our quick
answer is by the mercy of my teachers
like we don't want to hold on to praise
because praise exacerbates the ego yeah
and so we immediately want to say and
it's not even like we're being falsely
humble we actually are made up of the
teachers in my life all the people that
have loved me cared for me
it may well people is like screwed with
me but they also taught me a lesson so
the Yogi's conception is everybody is
creating what I am and therefore I don't
own any of this you want to praise me
I'm gonna give the praise back to my
teacher now the teachers mood is by the
mercy of my teacher I look at back at my
life and
I've realized I'm just like a ball of
energy and generally the energy goes to
like feed my ego how can it feed my ego
how kind of use that to manipulate girls
to people like me how can I use
everything I've got gifted for my own
self-aggrandizement core and so when you
get these teachers in your life
spiritual teachers who sort of like give
you a loving slap or loving hey and they
turn you on in some way they take what
you already have and they redirect that
North instead of South everything I was
doing was just snowballing devastation
and now you can you don't you don't give
up those qualities that you have but you
use them in a way that brings people up
instead of brings them down that's what
we were saying about movies - or any
entertainment or sounds and dined that
state of mind that you're trying to
achieve when you get on stage where
you're trying to sing with no ego that's
exactly the the frequency that you have
to hit when you're doing comedy you do
your best but you don't do your best so
that people love you you do your best
because that's trying to do thanks your
craft that's your this is your thing
your thing that you do your your
expression your art form you have to
manage it and the way the manage it
correctly is you have you can't you
can't go out there with ego you'll turn
people off they won't feel it you know
there's moments where you can use that
especially with comedy where you turn
but it's not ego it's like but even if
you're doing it though in comedy you're
doing it for the effect of making people
laugh you're not doing it for the effect
of pumping yourself up and you have to
be very careful about that and if they
know that that's what you're doing they
will accept it that's the that's the art
of it yes that's the art of it it's a
dance there's a strange sort of dance
that goes on I I would notice this is
humiliating to mention but I will if I
wasn't doing it in a mood of service as
an offering if I got offstage and that
wasn't my motivation I'd be depressed
yeah because and maybe you can relate to
this on stage on the sensor I'm the
coolest I'm I'm it there's singing song
Erick's I wrote on my bed and now
they're all singing them and then I'm in
another country right now I'm offstage
and I'm a nobody
so if you're not medicating with any
type of drug or sex and any mall you're
left with is a bunch of emotion that's
interesting and I thought this is true
but I think this is why people who are
entertainers can can move towards
addiction or we yes ways to mask that
that loneliness that comes with being
the center where the whole world is
trying to convince you of the Maya
you've heard that word Maya the illusion
the illusion of life is that you are the
center yeah
by legio this is an interesting thing I
want to talk to mention to you too
because you brought this point where
like I like living my life I look great
live why wouldn't you want to do that
again
no because and I don't know I didn't
sort of challenge it a little because
you were saying in retrospect to helio
said doing why would you want to do it
over because the whole Buddhist and
Hindu thing is that I don't want to take
birth again yeah and since we were
talking about these higher planets and
higher beings they say that that planet
like Earth and they said there's other
ones like this as well there is some
pleasure and some pain there's people
who live in a penthouse and there's
people are sleeping on the streets or
you can be on the hundreth whatever
floor it was or the World Trade Center
and be a CEO and then a plane can be
wrapped you know two floors underneath
you you can go from pleasure and pain
the most excruciating plane and the most
incredible highest of pleasure in a
moment mm-hmm so in this sort
I mean we've got plant places that are
like places in the world they're like
the rape capital of the world and then
you've got places that are sort of like
you know go to Switzerland or Norway
where the currency is strong the people
are beautiful and the everything you see
is like it's from like a postcard so we
have like great amounts of pain and
great amounts of pleasure on this planet
in such a condition you could start to
question like why am I here what is life
about it gives you a win do to even ask
those questions now if there's just so
much pleasure in your life
they say that higher beings don't have
the impetus to evolve because there's so
much pleasure higher being higher being
so the according to the Vedic system
planets the others higher higher planets
okay I don't want to say Ganesh but
there's a higher planets with higher
beings who just living a high life right
and therefore the impetus to get out of
samsara
you know there's weren't a repeated
birth and death there's no impetus to
get out sometimes people are suffering
so much
there's no impetus to even see a
spiritual light people are suffering
tremendously maybe go to prison or they
get to they get caught up in more
degrading activity sometimes people who
have so much so I'm like saying in your
life you have so much good karma so to
speak
but because you're still embodied there
always be sort of like a pinprick
because that's part of having a body
right but the my point was this journey
is enjoyable and that I for you got good
karma is that all it is because I've had
bad moments I mean is it all just I mean
if you will your self
it is choices is that Karma's like is it
the direction did you choose to push
forward in the understanding of the push
and pull the understanding of the
discipline and the work and then the
kindness and the generosity and that all
these things are connected together and
then also the expression the ability to
express yourself through podcasts or
through stand-up comedy all these things
are enjoyable and that there's a pursuit
in that and that the real benefit of it
is that other people get entertainment
out of it and that know your choices
perpetuate it yeah obviously but there's
other people have done podcasts done
comedy and they're just not successful
at it yeah but it's a puzzle though it's
like it's saying other people sing songs
but people don't play them back yeah
there are bands before I mean day you're
sure
like the Buzzcocks from the 70s hoopla
who my opinion was better than Green Day
but they just weren't at the right time
historically to be yeah yeah look
there's always gonna be that but my
point is like you don't have to be
famous to be happy it's just the life is
interesting life is enjoyable some
it's hard and sometimes it's painful
sometimes it's emotionally devastating
for sure but the idea if you are alive
and enjoying life the idea of doing it
forever
is terrifying to people that was what my
point was like why is it terrifying if
it's not terrifying to do it now why is
the eternal existence so disturbing to
people right unless they have had a
traumatic life yeah there's a lot of
people have yes a lot of people about a
traumatic yes a lot of people have I
don't think my life was so traumatic I
think I got so let's let's leave them
out of that equation and let's just talk
about people who have not had a
traumatic life who have a fear look if
you're in America and you're not sick
and you have friends you're doing
infinitely better than most people on
planet sure you know that's just we're
really fortunate in terms of like the
environments that we exist in if you're
not being abused and you have a job and
you have a you know hobbies and things
to do god damn are you lucky you could
be born in Afghanistan you could be
living in the Congo suffering from a
host of different pathogens and bacteria
and viruses and shit but but your thing
is according to that person was it Helio
made up that yeah I don't think he made
it up I think
well Helio obviously was a great warrior
as well as a great jiu-jitsu teacher but
he had this philosophy on existence and
that you had to live your life and do
the right things always and if you
didn't you would come back again and do
it all over again
well the Vedic system is is similar but
it's not the exact you don't get born as
joe rogan again living an unparalleled
life and like i didn't take out the
garbage that day i should have taken out
the garbage it more be like according to
your desires and your activities and
your thoughts and the people you
associate with you moved up psychically
you got a little more degraded well you
know either upgrade or degrade based if
it was simply similar do you think of
yourself like that do you think like
when you think of yourself and your
fortune and the the interesting life
you've carved out do you feel like your
past life has had some sort of an impact
on
who you are right now for sure for sure
for sure
really why are you so sure I'm well it's
just sort of like my worldview is that
there's not a randomness that everything
is building upon something in the same
I'm building upon tomorrow today so you
guys know why holding on next week why
act this week and you could take it
bigger and bigger and bigger so that in
that sense it makes sense but there's a
there's a little bit more of a leap of
faith like and I'm building up to a
climax where we'll take another body or
I'm coming from a place where I have
some talents you know we call them your
god-given gifts or your my you know my
daughter is a gifted art are artists but
the idea is that it's been a practice
that we've been practicing and bringing
with us mmm for lifetimes and both are
both good and bad and this is a belief
system that you just sort of adopt
because there's not really any evidence
it's it's not that I've adopted is it's
that's the that's how the Yogi's view
right karma and and I understand but you
taking this and yourself I take it
myself because I see it in this lifetime
now like I said that I don't know
there's there's blind faith and then
there's reasonable faith so my
reasonable faith lies in this lifetime
I've witnessed my body change I witness
my mind change my intelligence change
I've witnessed myself cultivate desires
that heal me make me stronger make me
lighter make me more connected I've
witnessed myself choose bad choices
things that are addictive things that
are defiling my consciousness or my body
or my health so in this lifetime I know
I have I can steer my Karma
and at the same time there's certain
things that are out of my hands like you
and me are on a flight to San Diego and
the planes going to San Diego what I
what we do on that plane the plane
journey is our Karma what we do on that
plane that's our free will so that's the
difference between freewill and destiny
there is there is a difference of the
two just because there is karma doesn't
mean you're bound to it you can move it
but the yoga system is to bring us to
this trying to think keep it simple to
this it's called sattva or so it's a
state of self-control of peace of
balance so all the things that the whole
culture is based to keep the mind
peaceful and for when the mind is
peaceful I act less on impetus and more
from a higher chuckers or higher
thoughts or higher intelligence for
example if I slap a panther Panthers
gonna bite me why because Panthers bite
when you slap them if I slap Joe you
could act from a different place hey man
what's up or you could be like
immediately and sometimes I feel that
also I feel like I'm acting from a lower
place I'm angry I'm gonna kick back
right right and sometimes I feel like I
do this with parenting sometimes I get
angry at my child I said don't you
understand he's just trying to talk to
you he's just trying to share how the
experience is I have to pull myself back
and let go of any way I was parented and
try to like act from a higher place so
there's always an they say in the human
species there's always this chance to
either upgrade your activities or
degrade your activities and they and
they and they snowball off of each other
like every good choice helps to make a
better choice mmm you know what we said
that would diet with exercise how do we
get talking about that Joe it's just
we're talking just massive detours that
were taking no no no it's we're getting
into places we were talking about your
belief that your karma is connected to
what you've done in the past life sure
so that's it that's a bigger leap of
faith but yeah and you say I see it in
this life and you see it in other people
as well so when you see people you look
at their life and you think this person
the where they are right now is directly
connected to what they've done in the
past life yeah it's an interesting
philosophy it's an interesting
interesting lens and you know it's an
honor you know it's nice about even in
Western psychiatry if I go and complain
about my husband or my wife the a good
psychiatrist will go well what's your
responsibility in this mmm is it all
your wife or is it you
right they take you back and when you
really study
Vedic thought you realize that there is
no more blaming anybody yeah I've just
got what I've got for whatever reason
mmm now what am I gonna do with that No
what am I gonna do today it's all so
what am I gonna do tomorrow why me the
why me shit never happens
mm-hmm because I've got what I got I
probably did something and people don't
like to hear that but we don't know our
backstory and to be truthful I have a
blind side a blind spot when it comes to
anything
atrocious I've done in this life I
forget all the times I've hurt people
broke people's hearts you know it was
rude or cruel or thoughtless so I got to
get some Karma to in this life what to
speak of a previous life I'm oblivious
to right and if I just want to blame the
circumstance here's your option you can
either be free from that be acceptance
and accept that there's benevolent
forces that are trying to teach us
lessons to get out of the birth and
death or you can just be bitter at the
world why me unfair so this idea of
benevolent forces that are trying to
teach us do you feel that this spiritual
quest is almost like a divine puzzle
that human beings are proposed and that
you'll you are given this infinite
series of options and in choosing the
right way of thinking and behaving you
can carve out the righteous path as best
you can you will make mistakes but that
there's there's a spiritual undertaking
that is a part of operating this puzzle
correctly and that this is what all
these teachings are about and that's
trying to we're all trying to relay what
we've learned and what what we've
experienced personally and we're trying
to relay it to other people so that they
can relate and so that they can also
make choices that will allow them to
more refine their approach to life too
to achieve better spiritual balance yeah
so Paul said I there's there's you know
the Yogi's called me yamas and niyamas
'he's sort of like say it again yamas
and niyamas do Zuma's yaya yamas and
niyamas things you do and things you
don't do okay and it's the equivalent of
like sort of guardrails on the road
mm-hmm right you drive a little bit off
too far you scratch your car where's the
guardrail but if it wasn't there it'd be
complete tragedy so there's sort of like
things that we pull in with our
sexuality with our thoughts with our
words it's how to use the vehicle in
this lifetime so the vehicle being the
body right what we do what we don't do
but we don't what we do you know what to
eat what to what to think what to speak
how to speak how to relate to people how
to relate to juniors how to relate to
seniors so the whole Vedic culture is
carved out like this that in itself is
not spiritual it just assists you in
driving a car I still got to go north
and so once I can take care of how to
like take care of this machine and keep
it on the road then I've reached out for
connection you know and that's the
spirit so there's Dharma but then
there's Dharma that that's supposed to
get us connected what is that your
vector of Dharma what is that the
definition rather of Dharma again Dharma
means sort of like a Rama
right living it's not some people
confuse it with while doing what you're
born to do because I don't think it's
just doing what you're good at because
you could be good at leadership and be a
dictator and and in and you're great
leader everyone's gonna do what you do
but Hitler was a great a great leader a
great leader is probably in this chart
but then you also have great great
leaders like like a Christ it was like a
great leader right also so it's not just
leadership it's leading person towards
connection mm-hmm so that your activity
has a benevolent effect on everyone it
touches
that's Dharma that's that's Dharma and
it's true sense and that's the Dharma of
your body like your Dharma is you
entertain your you could say a warrior
you could all say you've also Dharma as
a father so that's a there's
all type of like your carved out for
that you know if you weren't doing that
you don't feel like a little lack in
your life but then there's like an itchy
adharma or what you and the nitya derma
is actually the Dharma of the soul and
that's why in the Vedic system it's not
like you're trying to convert somebody
to be of your religion it's not like a
home run to say okay I got a Christian
to become a Hindu that's not what it is
the idea is that everybody is a spirit
soul you can change
it's not about joining the same church
or the same ashram it's like a soul as a
soul it's a truth truth is truth there's
no no no one's got a monopoly on truth
there's no such thing as it's like math
is that Jewish math or Hindu math or
Christian it's like math is math right
so we want to apply truth to the life to
the vehicle and that's gonna give
direction to the vehicle that's gonna be
the food for the soul and that's what
the genuine meaning of yoga people say
it's a balance the mind it's not to
balance it's to connect the Atma or the
soul with divinity to but with Bhagavad
that's the real yoga and that's when the
yoga means to come together but in the
original text and the original ancient
teachings of Upanishads Bhagavad Gita
it's all about is here I am lost in the
crazy plan I'm driving my car everywhere
how to keep it on the road and where do
I go and that's that's that's the
classical concept of what yoga is mmm
how do we keep it on the road and where
do I go I like that way of looking at it
I mean we go off the road yeah and we
need the road we need these discussions
people need these discussions we need I
mean I need them right now having it
with you I appreciate it
but a week we we need to hear other
people having these discussions we need
to have them personally ourselves this
is what every morning on my podcast 5
a.m. you do your podcast every day every
day for an hour and it's sort of like a
check-in and week on iTunes and all that
chance it's on iTunes because it's ages
and me and I co-hosted with another
friend who was a monk for a long time
with me and we were both teenagers from
the Lower East Side mm-hmm and so we do
it together and we have a scene upstate
as well as he's in New York City in
Manhattan
okay so you do it remotely we do it
unzoom
okay but through it gets taught Lipson
yeah thought the podcasts yeah I've done
it at zoom I did a Jordan Peterson
podcast through zoom I saw that yeah
great it works you can do it it's weird
though but we have like 90 people join
us live and so everyone knows each other
and then it's also done public so mmm
it's fun it's my I enjoy it
there's something about doing podcasts
that you you are working out ideas it's
made me infinitely more aware of my
thoughts infinitely better as smoothie
and writing to since I'm right right
into books right now and they're both
helping me like yeah I always thought
that but now this is a better way to say
it I'm sure you do that any write
material yes for sure but my friend
Eddie Wong he had a really interesting
take on that he's like that's what I do
first thing in the morning he was I
right right and he goes and I write
every day and he said and then in
writing every day it helps me really
understand how I think about things
because I'm really really contemplating
really concentrating on how do I
actually think about these things what
what is actually important to me and
that that activity of writing for his
own education for his own you know
betterment is very important to him and
it made me a like a big impact on me I'm
saying it that way I'm like oh okay that
makes sense so many piece by the way Joe
it's so good that you're doing this so
many people I know listen to the show
like that's weird it's weird and it's a
real wide swath of people it's weird
it's a strange thing I'm just gonna
sound crazy but not any crazier than all
the other shit we've said so far I feel
like this show made itself I feel like
I'm the person who's been granted the
curator position on this show I feel
like this show all the challenges that
I've had through this show have sort of
all the fuck-ups and all the things that
I've said that we're stupid though those
were almost like were put in front of me
to make me understand the consequences
of not respecting it or of not treating
it with the proper focus and
concentration and that this thing is
this thing is almost like it's always
been here
and I'm like an Archie
just to just brushing the dirt away and
I'm the curator and I have to show up
every day an artist lights on artists
always describe himself a I think it was
Machiavelli or no Machiavelli
Michelangelo Michelangelo Michelangelo
described it like that I can say myself
as a puny songwriter I felt like the
song was already written yeah yeah the
lyrics are already written I feel like
that with comedy when I come up with a
good bit I got was out of this new bit
that I've only had for like four or five
days now and I've been working on it I
feel like like it was a gift I mean I
know I wrote it I know I wrote it I know
I typed it I know I thought about it but
where from where from what yeah like
what what is that what is my creativity
what is that coming from what is the
gift and that's one of the things about
pot and one of the things about booze
and all the different ways that I
achieved different states of mind they
helped me get out of my own way so I
could find these things better that's
really what it is it's not as much of an
escape from reality it's an escape from
me from your thoughts yes from me from
my bullshit too so that I can find these
thoughts better so that I can go onstage
and then my reward is this strange
feeling that you get when you know
everyone's laughing
this is wild but the better I get at it
the less I enjoy it in the moment
because I'm not thinking this is great
I'm killing I am just staying on point
you ever say something where you're just
laughing at your own joke yeah for sure
because things come up that I don't know
we're going to say and then I say it and
then I start laughing but it has to be
organic I'm not gonna fake laugh on
stage but I will laugh on stage you know
my goal is always to just like hit that
frequency the goal is to like hit that
frequency where people are laughing and
say with the right economy of words in
the right order and find the best way to
to get it into the people's heads and
that's that's the crazy thing is the
better you get at it the more effect it
has on people but the less effective
on me like I could do I'll do an arena
and I'll crush and I'll get a standing
ovation in front of an arena and I don't
even feel it I barely feel it like me
like I just did something right I'm like
a passenger on a rock like a passenger
yeah that's what it feels like I mean it
did the better I get at it the more I
feel like a pastor but conversely if I
fuck up I feel like I fucked up if I
screw something up if I mess up a bit if
I do so the pain is on me a hundred
percent so the pleasure kind of
dissipates the more weren't it like a
morning internal pleasure the pleasure
is not from what they are getting
formation it's confirmation that I'm
doing the right thing
that's what it is it's like confident
like everybody's happy I'm happy that
you're happy and it's a genuine feeling
of appreciation at that concept of the
warrior just doing his duty
yes I'm just doing it this is what I do
now the bhagavad-gita this is the thing
that I wanted to talk to you about with
when we talking about the Vedas and
we're talking about all the the ancient
texts you think that all that stuff is
real now could be real it could be real
remember saying it's real you like this
that shit's all real that's my sort of
like hashtag that's all real it's
because when some you stumble upon this
thing like man this is all real like
because there's something a rational
thinker I'm always holding back some
reservation for like this can't all be
real right but things always just show
up I was like him that's so real I tell
you there's a crazy one sure
okay I don't want to tell too much about
the details because like you at private
we're only doing it to two hundred
million people I had a person that an
astrologer at my teacher training and I
was training people to be teachers and
one of the ladies was from a very
wealthy family she's older than me our
kids went to school together and he did
this interesting this astrology - this
interesting class where he did this
class on Karma where he shows how karma
is actually scientific and predictable
so everyone would have to give their
like I said early longitude lat
to date and time of birth I was born on
January 11th 3:30 a.m. 1966 and you'd
have to give that all it and so he
doesn't know anybody and he is calling
okay who was born on 1983 February 6
they called the person forward and they
said and he wouldn't do their hold sharp
but he'd show some big hiccup in their
chart and he'd say it seems like in
October you experienced great loss and
the person be like oh my god my father
died in October and every person he was
calling up he was just read the hiccup
so one particular lady she said that was
so good can you do my entire chart so he
had it done now this lady I knew her she
grew up with somebody world-famous
I won't mention who it is but it's
something a household name and they were
best friends and she grew up in a very
wealthy family but as she got older she
just became she became a simple artist
but that what famous person was always
in her life and then that person died a
tragic death and so she never had much
after that financially so a particular
magazine like a gossip tabloid found out
that she was friends with this person
and on the anniversary of this person
famous person's death they were gonna
put out a special issue and they found
that she had all these intimate photos
of this person so they offered her a
massive amount of money for these photos
so I'm Stan I know this story and I'm
standing there with the astrologer and
the astrologer saying okay it seems like
in July you're gonna have more money
than you've ever had in your life and
she was just like she looks at me and we
look at each other like oh my god
and she told him the whole story and she
said yeah and in July they're cutting me
the check in July how did you know that
and the astrologer very humbly just goes
it's been known since your birth so this
is like the ultimate version of
determinism right yes and no it's like
it's if you use that analogy well use
that analogy of the plane there is a
determinism but there's also India
vidual free will which can sometimes
affect sometimes you're gonna just get
what you get but how I react to what I
get that's gonna create a whole new set
of karma for me mmm right yeah how you
react what you guys definitely yeah
we're all gonna get some thing yeah and
by by me associating with people were
connected by being associated with
people who are a little bit more in tune
then when something happens to me some
great life reversal some incredible loss
some chronic disease whatever I might
react to it in a different way
mmm and that's gonna create a whole new
pathway for me yeah well depending upon
your actions you reacted things
differently depending upon your physical
state and that's one of the things that
yoga really helps when one of the ways
that yoga helps your karma is yoga
relaxes you to consequences and to
things that happen like I remember I was
driving on the highway and there was
this kid behind me he's illegal alien
and he was on his phone
and he hit the brakes too late and
slammed into my Porsche I have a rare
Porsche it's a very nice car and he
fucked up my car and I got out and he
didn't have a license or insurance
he had insurance actually I didn't think
he did but take down his information I
took a photo of his insurance card and I
told me I said you should get out of
here man like you're gonna get arrested
like you can rape you slammed into me
you don't have a license you know I'm
supposed to be driving they gonna take
your car his car was fucked up my car
actually drove I drove it to the Comedy
Store but I remember the way I reacted
to him because I had done yoga throws
bills in a row was cool and calm yeah I
was happy I was okay cuz he slammed into
me man my story I told I wasn't angry
yeah it changes how you react
first of all it changes how you react in
the moment when you're doing the ass in
the class yeah it has a secondary effect
what you just said and the third way it
affects you is at the time of death the
idea and I'm I have actually had almost
a near-death experience with this too
where you are focused in the same way
you're not angry you're not freaking out
you become incredibly focused as if I'm
about about to leave my body and you can
say it once I was attacked and I had it
probably the most spiritual experience
of my life and it was how many attacked
it's such a story but it's a it's I was
in a show I was why don't we were in the
time of my life when I was monks we're
all monks and we were traveling and we
played in sort of a ghetto part of
Buffalo and a big show materially
speaking it was great we were big people
loved those who sold merchandise and
which ban was this was shelter it's my
next business and after the show it was
about 2:00 in the morning and everybody
is getting out of the club and I'm in
the alley getting interviewed for some
man magazine and our van is parked you
could drive the car in the van in the
club and all the doors and windows are
open and our guys were unloading all the
gear and basically only a few people
left in the club breaking down the club
and I was outside getting interviewed
and all of a sudden this car pulls up
with these massive dudes who weren't
from the punk scene they look like just
sort of ghetto dudes and they were
ripped and they were big and they just
grabbed one of the younger kids I mean
our shows everyone was 17 19 you know 20
they grabbed one kit and just beat the
living crap out of them and I was like
I'm getting interviewed so it's sort of
awkward and it's happening about 50
yards away from just randomly awesome
picked him up threw him down beat him
and then went to another kid and did
that by the time they got to the third
kid everybody just started running for
their life here's like a get there you
know you don't think of these things in
times of great like fear and anxiety why
don't you why don't you do this why'd
you do that what it all I did was I ran
back in the club to get my band
I said you guys got to get out of here
there's a bunch of crazy guys outside
and all my roadies we're all monks by
the way but all the guys who were my
roadie said we can't go anywhere like
the equipment's half in the car
the t-shirts aren't loaded and all of a
sudden the bad guys their car drives
into the club and parks like like a tea
blocking our van so we couldn't get out
of the club any longer and they get out
of the car and there's not that many
people there's a couple bands and sound
men stuff like around the club and the
biggest guy gets out and he grabs a gun
and he just goes in a really serious and
unemotional way I've got a gun and I'm
gonna kill everyone tonight that was one
of these like eerie sort of like eerie
organ music he could hear and I was like
it just felt like oh this is the day you
know the day you always talk about that
death day where you don't expect it and
you expect it and you get the dealt the
at Ace of Spades that's your day now and
I was like and I was the older you know
devotee Krishna devotee these were
Krishna devotee monks or bhakti yoga
monks and so all the other guys in the
pan came up to me what are we gonna do
what are we gonna do now they weren't
they weren't right near us at the time
they were like they were literally going
around and beating people up
and all the other monks came up to you
know Raghu what are we gonna do and I
had already sort of given up on escaping
or anything I just look I don't know
where I got this from because I'm
definitely not an elevated soul but I
said we're gonna die tonight and so
we're gonna chant and I went into the
Christ I know why would you just run I
you know what in retrospect I don't know
but let me let me let me a circle back
with this I grabbed the drum out that I
play this Indian drum and we all started
chanting these mantras - miss ringa Dave
who's an avatar of Vishnu you'd usually
chant for a type of protection but we
all started really focusing and chanting
this mantra it
unbelievable story but it's all true and
as they were beating up people they
finally came to us and all my guys ran
for their life some guys were on under
the van in the van above the van and I'm
surrounded by this gang and the biggest
guy just grabs the gun and he goes to me
do you want some I was like freaking
trick question what am I supposed to say
here and so I just you know by the way I
didn't look like a monk I had jeans on
or I didn't it's not like let's beat up
monk day it was just a random act of
violence and so I said I just put my
hands in like an ax namaste and said
hairy Krishna I'm a devotee of Lord
Krishna and I have no idea why you are
angry and then for the first time in my
life I felt completely helpless I was
just like repeatedly beaten and just
punched and it's just one of those
things it's not like you can even fight
back you are just getting pounded but
what happened was every time I got
punched ice chanted a mantra so it's
sort of like vishnu narayan chaitanya
krishna govinda gopal every time i
chanted to the point where I was like oh
this is amazing
as I'm actually chanting I was actually
stepping outside myself saying I'm
actually in meditation on sacred names
and then all of a sudden my head was
down and I looked behind me and there
was these three girls coming to protect
me and they had baseball bats and then I
realized no they're not they're the
girlfriends of these guys and then I
started getting hit by a baseball bat um
unbelievable three times in the head one
of the shoulder and two in the legs and
every time and this is a random thing
there's no reason as far as I know was
random I didn't know them they didn't
know me they weren't from that scene our
show is Ana ghetto you know there's
always a cause of something but
no idea what the cause was and so every
time but but but miraculously and you
read these stories in the Mahabharata
Rami on all these epics of India the
great sage leaves his body he calls lord
krishna's chariot in front of him then
he chanced these mantras and i'm
thinking oh my god i'm chanting these
mantras at the time of death i'm
chanting at the time of death this is
the perfection of my life that was what
was going through my head i kid you not
and i was like outside of my body and i
wasn't fearful and then all of a sudden
to wrap up the story everything stopped
and i didn't really know what happened
but what was happening was all the guys
in the band jumped in our car or van and
plowed through their car and took off
and i can't remember how but i ended up
in the street and some ghetto street
carrying this indian clay drum I look
like ever see that movie carry the girl
he's covered in blood I was covered in
blood for my head all the way down all
over the German I'm walking in the
streets trying to flag down a car the
cars would slow down see me and then
speed away because I looked like a
zombie or something and then I realized
I'm an something and you know you're
running sort of high on adrenaline I
remember being very lucid and I went
over to some light I saw it looked like
a garage where they fix cars or house
buses or something when it was open and
there was a man and a booth and I said
sir you have to call the police because
I thought my friends now we're getting
beat up or killed or whatever and I said
uh you have to call the police my
friends are in trouble and they kind of
literally looked at me and just said I'm
busy and I said listen you got to call
the police right now and if you don't
mind I'm just gonna hide in this booth
because I think these guys might come
back and kill me and so I'm kneeling
down in this dirty garage at 2:00 in the
morning and the first thing that in my
mind is no one knows where I am my
mother doesn't know where I am
friends don't know where I am my band
members don't know where I am they could
be getting killed
everything was so good today like I had
a great day and now it's over like a
dream and I even have these lyrics that
were like this world's like a dream it's
not what it seems
we think it's solid but it fades I was
like I even sort of myself talked became
a prayer I started saying I really
wasn't expecting to die tonight but
that's what the dream is it seems real
and now it's over and I started to think
like oh my god
I was in I was sort of like in a state
of like Samadhi when I was getting beat
up I was focused I was connected and I
was chanting at that time I said but now
maybe my if I got I'm just trying to
think my my you know Boy Scout first aid
is like I might have a concussion my
brains gonna swell I'm gonna fall asleep
and then I won't be in meditation and I
started saying I said I said I started
praying
sincerely Krishna I wasn't expecting to
die tonight but you were so kind
considering I'm not evolved to enter my
lips so I could just chant so please
don't let me die with a concussion if
you want to take me please take me right
now and with all sincerity I started
chanting these prayers that I had
memorized these very beautiful prayers
from an ancient book but their prayers
go you I focused a picture of Krishna in
my mind and I started chanting these
prayers and then unfortunately I lived
unfortunately because I was in such a
perfect icings meaning I was at that's
how I would want to die hmm so there was
no book there's no teacher there's no
pilgrimage there was no that taught me
more about Mike my spiritual path on
that than that beatdown day because I
felt like no ever close to dying as you
can get as so close to dying but I felt
like he had accepted it that and I had
been taken care of
like in that time of great tragedy I bet
I felt connected more than I've ever
been connected and I wouldn't wish it
again
mm-hmm but I'm so happy it happened we
still never got to the bhagavad-gita
sorry but we got turned a hard I want to
know why you think that that's real and
what you think is going on in those
stories well first you've got the
dialogue itself which is cool wisdom for
all people yeah and some of its like a
hyper bazaar like what Oppenheimer
quoted at the detonation of the atomic
bomb right I am become death color
sweetly Shia creep bravado is that time
time that's a Sanskrit how does this a
Kalos me look Shia creeper everyt oh is
that why I am the destroyer of time I am
the Great destroyer and I've come to
destroy worlds so that's one man actual
translate that's the actual translation
in English because his translation
Oppenheimer's was I am become death is
that because of an issue with the
translation between English different
people translated slightly different but
it's it's similar meaning meaning in
that particular section that you pulled
out that was Christian explaining like
God is beautiful not as charming God is
your best friend
he's also death personified so he's
saying in that particular place I'm
actually also the destroyer of all the
worlds when we think of the Yogi's
explain that God is everything both the
beauty and the destruction as well and
so Krishna's just sharing his attributes
and in that particular chapter chapter
11 he's his the most honest intimidating
where do you think all these stories
come from where do you what do you think
the origin of the Bhagavad Gita of the
Mahabharat of of all the ancient texts
what do you think the origin was what
was the what was the motivation to put
this stuff down what was what was the
original concepts that led them to write
this and where did it all
from there has to be an origin of these
these wisdoms right yeah what do you
think that is you know um to even answer
the question I have to take myself out
of ragout and just answer like a yoga
teacher
okay cuz the to answer of what do you
think it's one thing you're sort of
trained not to do in as far as what is
your personal opinion I can give you my
personal opinion but I have to separate
it from what the stories they'll say
we'll give me your personal my personal
opinion is I hear what the stories have
to offer I find some value in the
stories and I try to apply wisdom till
my life it helps the direction of my
life it helps my escape Potter the
stories themselves say these are all
real there'd be a way beyond your
perception they were orally transmitted
at certain time historically they
understood people are getting dumber see
we have a tendency to think we've got
the pinnacle of evolution but the Vedic
teachings is that as we go on in this
age we get more and more disconnected
there was a time where architecture was
more evolved where the sciences were
more evolved we're gonna stop the
sciences were more of a science it's
like like for example the building of
these Vimanas which when we read them
now we just think that's mythological
mm-hmm even weapon jury weapon jury they
said we're done with sound if you study
that there's one book called the Donner
okay but do you think this is real do I
think it's real I think it could be I
don't think it's definitely I definitely
only one point time human beings had
Vimanas and they flew around the sky and
then they had weapons that use sound
could could why not with no evidence
archaeological evidence that there was a
flying craft or was that there was ever
any technology that allowed people to
leave gravity yeah there sometimes there
may not be evidence just like this right
let me show you what was the guy's name
Hill the the Party Hill what's your
evidence he could just say well it's my
own experience mean he's just laying
that's a totally different thing he's
just relaying his personal experience he
could have had some
sort of a psychotic break he could have
had I mean they could have been mass
psychosis with him and his what I mean
with two people
well I'm psychosis with him and his wife
I can say that there are things that
make no sense to me
yet I sort of tried them anyway and then
after time they made sense like well
wait a second that does make sense it or
at different vantage points of my life
it didn't make sense when I was 20 but
at 50 that makes a lot of sense so there
are certain things that are huge leaps
of faith that I can't say I definitely
know that to be just like chanting on
mantras minna sense made knows real
sense but over time I realized actually
that helps in this particular way but it
she has a state the state of
consciousness we've known that forever
that achieving that meditation in
general right achieves certain states of
consciousness and you can actually with
fMRI you can actually monitor the
changes in the way the brain is see this
is what I like about you you're one of
those guys you get into these very
interesting like subtle Sciences and
then you find it's like hard evidence
for these things and just hearing that
thing with James Wilk and breaking all
these things down I'm I'm I'm more of a
simpler guy I find people where I trust
the way they live and they've applied
stuff and walk the it's more like I can
tell time but I don't know how to take
part o'clock and putting together no I
think exactly the same way I'm
fascinated by watches yeah but then you
see all the gears behind a watch like a
self-winding watch you know like I don't
know what the fuck is happening here I'm
sure I like that ended out eventually
I'm like that with a lot of things and
I'm always impressed when you dig into
it with people like this but truthfully
if you want to be honest honest truth I
was like oh man I hope Joe doesn't dig
into it maybe because I'm not that kind
of hard science guy you know there's
people like even though the stuff didn't
turn from with you as a human being what
that's why I asked you very specifically
what do you think right well I can say
like the stuff that you liked about me
fighting was endurance flexibility I
give all the credit that to yoga you did
at the time Ronnie um I've told people
that you
you had crazy cardio and your cardio was
you never did cardio you just didn't
every car you just sat down this is
great cardio
I always said you always learn like
really good endurance and my cardio was
even better
I remember being at the bomb squad once
on day 17 of a 21-day fast Wow
day 17 and I remember fighting I can't
remember his name his cool guy he's like
what and you know how juju its jiu-jitsu
class ends when we're all tanked
tomorrow like huh and I just kept on
going and he's like man what is up with
you I was like I don't know I haven't
eaten solid food in 17 days so it's not
like I'm a genius it's just that these
are sort of like yoga fasting deep
breathing I just been doing them yeah
I'm sure there's people that can give
you the modern take on what the benefits
are and yeah but that's not what I'm
asking you what's I'm asking is why you
believe the bhagavad-gita is real sure
so my point is there's reasonable
amounts of faith in these other things
that I've applied that have made me take
a next step so whether I believe it's
real I just believe the truths I can
extract from it a real whether the war
actually happened there's a leap of
faith benefits of those following those
scriptures you apply and you feel those
benefits so that's enough that's enough
to make me move forward towards those
just for example the idea of faith and
because especially in America we don't
like the concept of blind faith but if I
saw you walking in downtown neat or
let's take it the other way you saw me
you're driving your Porsche and you saw
me walking in Manhattan and you say hey
Raghu how do you get to Times Square and
I said so the first step is I could lie
to you people lie all the time when you
ask them for directions but you have
some reasonable faith I know him he's a
friend why would he give me bad
direction so there's a reasonable amount
of faith but even still people get into
their egos and they just want to be even
know where of directions but I say you
go up to 14th Street and you're gonna
see a McDonald's you take a right then
you're gonna go down all the way to
whatever can happen anymore Union Square
and take a left and go up third and then
at Union Square you're gonna see a park
at that part
you take a hard left so again you have a
some type of extended faith towards me
not blind faith but you'd go up to 14th
Street and there's at mcdonnell's as you
go to McDonald's or that next signpost
you realize okay maybe he does know he's
gone then you go farther
there's Union Square okay I think he
actually knows what's going on and all
of a sudden you see the Times Square in
the distance so faith isn't just like I
believe and if anyone was to say I
believe this I believe in these Vimanas
I believe in mantra is I start to
question them but it happens with small
degrees of of things being just shown to
you that you want to take all right
what's the next step here what do they
say about this what do they say about
that and then you apply and see well
does that work with me and so like I
said sometimes things didn't make sense
I remember when I first met monks and
they said a question about or not even
monks but people were just like
following very strict with her sexuality
even even in family and the guy said I
don't have sex
I was I was 17 I was like you don't have
sex with your wife are you crazy
no I am do other we do other things and
I just couldn't understand that as a 17
year old boy or eighteen year old boy I
could understand why would you be with
the person who was it because they said
we were practicing detachment we're
practicing going internal to find our
pleasure and he said I said what do you
do for fun and he goes we go for a drive
I was like you go for a driver crazy but
it was where this person was once on his
path of really controlling the senses
and finding his pleasure internally at
different at time in my life it made no
sense whatsoever he really didn't like
having sex maybe or maybe there was only
internal babies like what what's
happening maybe there is trauma we don't
know the whole story and see what you're
saying know that applying this
whether or not you break it down
scientifically and objectively and try
to analyze each and every word and
whatever the translation is you could
actually apply those truths air quotes
into your life and have real benefits
yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah and and other
things are just uh does it make a
difference if Vimanas exists or not that
makes no difference my practical life
could they exist sure it could all these
yeah it could answer I think a lot of
these things we've talked about like
life on other planets and aliens they
all are very much explained or here's
another good one what are these
spiritual paths have in common we train
ourselves to find the differences in all
of them and the Vedic teachings say
don't you understand you should be able
to walk into a mosque into a church into
a synagogue and say how nice these
people are trying to connect not that we
got to win these people over to our team
Brian because they're all an illusion
and they're all going to hell forever
right everyone's on a type of path and I
appreciate them trying to surrender and
the only thing that's going to get in
their way because people say things like
this all the time yeah it's a religion
that caused all the problems in this
world and it's not religion it's the ego
that goes with joining a particular
church synagogue
ashram etc that we have in our way and
everybody else
they're a problem then we got to fix it
that's what gets in the way because you
could say materialism causes lots of
problems as well in the world so I don't
think it's a mistake II it'll sneak into
your diet it will sneak into your God
it'll sneak in and that's why there's an
appreciation instead of a instead of a
condemnation the people that are
different than us let's wrap it up right
there those three hours man oh really
yeah
I'm not crazy that is crazy time flies
he just started mad and kind of did I
hope that wasn't boy was great it was
great that's it everybody thank you and
Hari Krishna goodbye
[Music]